 978-1-4673-0671-3/11/$26.00©2011 IEEE   210 IEEE-ICoAC 2011    A Comparative study on existing methodologies to Predict Dominating Patterns amongst Biological Sequences  G. Lakshmi Priya 1  Department of Computer Science & Engineering 1  J. J College of Engineering and Technology 1  Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu, India glpriya.research11@gmail.com Shanmugasundaram Hariharan 2  Department of Info rmation Technology 2  Pavendar Bharathidasan College of Engg. & Technology 2  Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu, India mailtos.hariharan@gmail.com   Abstract Data Mining is the process of extracting or mining the patterns from very large amount of biological datasets Utilization of Data mining algorithms can reveal biological relevant associations between different genes and gene expression. In Data Mining, several techniques are available for predicting frequent patterns. One among the technique is association rule mining algorithm; which can be applied for solving the crucial problems faced in the field of biological science. From the literature, various algorithms have been employed in generating frequent patterns for distinct application These algorithms have some limitations in predicting frequent patterns, such as space, time complexity and accuracy. In order to overcome these drawbacks, the study is made on existing algorithms for generating frequent patterns from the biological sequences. The literature survey gives a significant number of methods were generated for predictin g associative patterns. The proposed system has to be developed for solving problems in biological science. Biological sequence may be a collection of DNA sequence, Gene expression sequence or Protein sequence for a specific viral disease. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. Proteins are organic compounds made up of amino acids arranged in a linear chain and folded into a globular form The future proposal not on ly leads in predictin g the frequent patterns; it will also satisfy some factors such as: time complexity, space and predict accu rate solution to the required problem. With the help of these three factors into consideration and efficient algorithm can be identified for predicting the dominating amino acids for any kind of specific biological implication Keywords-Data Mining, Clustering techniques, Association Rules and Bioinformatics I  I NTRODUCTION  Data mining refers extracting or mining knowledge from large amount of data. It is defined as çthe process of discovering meaningful new correlations, patterns and trends by digging into large amounts of data stored in warehouses Data Mining is called as Knowledge Discovery in Databases KDD\ta sets have grown in size and complexity, the modern technologies of computers, networks and sensors have made data collection and organization much easier. However the captured data needs to be converted into information and knowledge to become more useful. Data Mining is the entire process of applying computer-based methodology, including new techniques for knowledge discovery from data  Data Mining approaches seem ideally suited for Biological Data Mining, since it is data-rich, but lacks a comprehensive theory of lifeês organization at the molecular level. The extensive databases of biological information create both challenges and opportunities for development of novel KDD methods. Mining biological data helps to extract useful knowledge from massive datasets gathered in biology, and in other related life sciences areas such as medicine and neuroscience A crucial challenge in the future of bioinformatics involves putting that data to work. Now life scientists hope to plan large experiments, collect lots of data, analyze it, compare data between experiments, and eventually combine all of that information to improve basic theories, biotechnology, and medicine. The average trends in bioinformatics research areas are shown in the following Fig.1         Biological Science Research Areas 6 25 19 26 12 12 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Networks Modeling Sequence Motifs Alignment families Protein Structure Modeling Methods Sequence Phylogeny Gene Structure Regulation Modeling Methodologies Average  Figure 1 Average trends in Biological science research areas In the past two decades the challenges faced by the research pupil in the field of biomedical is for an explosive growth of biomedical data \(i.e., ranging from those collected in pharmaceutical studies and cancer therapy\investigations to those identified from genomics and proteomic research by 


 978-1-4673-0671-3/11/$26.00©2011 IEEE   211 IEEE-ICoAC 2011  discovering sequential patterns, gene functions, and proteinprotein interactions. The rapid progress of biotechnology and bio data analysis methods has led to the emergence and fast growth of promising new field coined as Bio Data Mining Applications of data mining to Bio Data Mining includes gene finding, protein function domain detection, function motif detection, protein function inference, disease diagnosis, disease prognosis, disease treatment optimization, protein and gene interaction network reconstruction, data cleansing, and protein sub-cellular location prediction A Amino acids Amino acids play central roles both as building blocks of proteins and as intermediates in metabolism. The chemical properties of the amino acids of proteins determine the biological activity of the protein. Proteins not only catalyze all or most of the reactions in living cells, they control virtually all cellular process. The general structure of an -amino acid is depicted in Fig.2, Which represents the amino group on the left, the carboxyl group on the right and R a side chain to each amino acid B Protein Structure Proteins are an important class of biological macromolecules present in all biological organisms, made up of elements such as carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, phosphorous oxygen and sulfur. The elements of a protein and the tertiary structure of protein are depicted in Fig. 3. There are four distinct aspects of a protein structure such as Primary structure Secondary structure, Tertiary structure and Quaternary structure  Figure 2 Structure of  amino acid Figure 3 The elements and tertiary structure of a protein C General Structure and functions of Amino Acids Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. Proteins are large molecules composed of one or more chains of amino acids in a specific order. The order is determined by the base sequence of nucleotides in the gene that codes the protein Amino acids combine in a condensation reaction that releases water and the new amino acid residue that is held together by a peptide bond.  Proteins are defined by their unique sequence of amino acid residues; amino acids can be linked in varying sequences to form a vast variety of proteins. Twenty standard amino acids are used by cells in protein biosynthesis, and these are specified by general genetic code. The Table I illustrates the list of essential amino acids and Table II shows the list of non- The one-letter and three-letter codes for amino acids used in the knowledgebase are those adopted by the commission on Biochemical Nomenclature of the IUPAC-IUB TABLE I L IST OF E SSENTIAL A MINO A CIDS  Amino Acid 3-Letter 1-Letter Arginine Arg R Histidine His H Isoleucine Ile I Leucine Leu L Lysine Lys K Methionine Met M Phenylalanine Phe F Threonine Thr T Tryptophan Trp W Valine Val V TABLE II L IST OF N ON E SSENTIAL A MINO A CIDS  Amino Acid 3-Letter 1-Letter Alanine Ala A Asparagine Asn N Aspartate Asp D Cysteine Cys C Glutamate Glu E Glutamine Gln Q Glycine Gly G Proline Pro P Serine Ser S Tyrosine Tyr Y D Bioinformatics Datasets Bioinformatics is the science and technique for organizing and analyzing biological data. Bioinformatics is conceptualizing biology in terms of molecules and applying 


 978-1-4673-0671-3/11/$26.00©2011 IEEE   212 IEEE-ICoAC 2011  informatics techniques to understand and organize the information associated with these molecules, on a large scale The Swiss-Prot group develops, annotates and maintains the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot protein sequence database, the most widely used protein information resource in the world The Bioinformatics Database group also develops and maintains other databases including PROSITE, a database of protein families and domains, and ENZYME, a database of enzyme nomenclature. The group also co-heads the development and maintenance of the ExPASy proteomics website. UniProtKB consists of two sections namely  UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot. - Protein sequence database  is manually annotated and is reviewed  UniProtKB/TrEMBL. - Protein sequence database is automatically annotated and is not reviewed E Chapter organization Chapter I deal with introduction to Data mining concepts functionalities, and applications of data mining in the field of Biological science its protein structure and amino acids Chapter II illustrates the usage of Apriori algorithm under various environments, situations for developing various applications. Chapter III refines the crucial challenges faced in biological science and the proposed architecture illustrates, to identify an efficient algorithm from Association rule mining algorithms. Chapter IV illustrates the drawbacks faced in the field of biological science and the recovery concludes and future investigation on mining frequent itemsets as the outlined research work II R ELATED WORK  Literature survey is the act of studying the existing system and analyzing the need for the system to be reengineered. It is the first and foremost step in designing a software and its defined as ça study of the operations or a set of connected elements and of the inner connection between the elements Literature survey has covered the following applications  Knowledge Discovery in Databases  Bio-Medical Applications  Granular Computing and W3C Applications  Soft Computing Applications From the Literature, Zalak [1  has proposed a ne w algorithm to overcome the drawbacks arisen in Apriori and RAAT algorithm. This algorithm improves the efficiency for generating more than 2-candidate itemsets using modified Tag parameter, which includes three arguments namely minimum number, maximum number, total number of items for particular transaction. By counting the change in support parameter the Modified RAAT algorithm may also be used in finding various emerging patterns like JEP. The pattern whose support changes abruptly from zero to nonzero is named as JEP A Knowledge Discovery in Large Databases  propose d IApri ori algo r ithm  t o o v e r com e t h e  following aspects that affect the efficiency of the Apriori algorithm: \(i\the frequent scanning of the database, \(ii\large scale of the candidate itemsets. Finally, the author has concluded that IApriori algorithm can reduce the scanning time of the database and optimize the join procedure of frequent itemsets generated in order to reduce the size of the candidate itemsets The Research of Improved Apriori Algorithm for Mining Association Rules reduces one redundant pruning operations of C2\(candidate 2-itemsets\The auth d R AAT algorithm, which decreases pruning operations of candidate 2itemsets for saving time and increasing efficiency. RAAT optimizes subset operation, through the transaction tag to speed up support calculations A New Improvement on Apriori Algorithm has proposed the high dimension oriented \(HDO algorithm to improve the classical Apriori algorithm. HDO algorithm has proposed for mining the association rules in the high dimensional data. Based on the classical Apriori, the proposed algorithm can cut down the redundant generation of identical sub-itemsets from candidate itemsets, by means of pruning the candidate itemsets with the infrequent itemsets with lower dimension. So, HDO algorithm can obtain a higher efficiency than that of the original algorithm when the dimension of data is high  r op ose d t h e Ap r i or i M en d alg ori thm  to  overcome the weakness present in Apriori algorithm by analyzing the classic method of mining association rules AprioriMend algorithm uses the default minimum support to prune the database, deleting the needless one and then grouped the pruned database according to the transaction length establishing a sub-groups tables to meet the group table quickly find all the characteristics of the frequent item sets. So, the AprioriMend algorithm improves the efficiency compared with the Apriori algorithm Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases [6 has propose d a n algorit hm for mining  a la r g e  collection of basket data type transactions using association rules between set of items with minimum specified confidence Each customer can have a transaction, which consists of items purchased by a customer in a visit. The existing algorithm generates all significant association rules between items in the database and incorporates buffer management and novel estimation and pruning techniques B Bio-Medical Applications Association Rule Mining in Genomics proposed by Anandhavalli h a s t w o m a jor goals for a n alyzing m a ssive  genomic data: \(i\ine how the expression of any particular gene might affect the expression of other genes, \(ii To determine what genes are expressed as a result of certain cellular conditions using association and clustering concepts The author selected an efficient algorithm to facilitate these analysis, the number of passes were not a major factor to be considered. Finally the author has concluded that the number of genes in one single transaction was very large 


 978-1-4673-0671-3/11/$26.00©2011 IEEE   213 IEEE-ICoAC 2011  The Apriori Property of Sequence Pattern Mining with Wildcard Gaps proposed by Fan Min [8 ha s an alt e rna t i v e  definition of the number of offset sequences by adding a number of dummy characters at the tail of sequence. Data miners designed pattern growth algorithms to obtain frequent patterns with periodical wildcard gaps, where the pattern frequency was defined as the number of pattern occurrences divided by the number of offset sequences. With the proposed definition, these uninteresting patterns were no longer frequent and the Apriori property holds good, hence Apriori algorithm can mine all frequent patterns with minimal endeavor Chien-Hua Wa s pr oposed F u zzy F r equent P a tt e r n  growth \(FFP-growth\to derive from fuzzy association rules. In this approach first, fuzzy partition methods have been applied to decide a membership function of quantitative value for each transaction item and then implement FFP-growth to deal with the process of data mining. This FFP-growth need not to generate candidate itemsets and improves the efficiency of repetitious database scanning. Compared with other pattern mining algorithms the proposed one has achieved better executive efficiency A Vector Operation Based Fast Association Rules Mining Algorithm proposed by Zhi Liu s propose d a ve cto r  operation based association rule mining algorithm \(V_Apriori algorithm\s the problem of multiple scanning of the database. With this algorithm the transaction database need to be scanned only one time to generate the boolean matrix which is stored in bit mode, so that memory space is greatly saved. The frequent itemsets are predicted through the AND operation on the vectors in the matrix, and the number of the candidates itemsets were reduced significantly. Compared with the traditional Apriori algorithm the new V_Apriori algorithm has been improved on time and space factor The author d a data mini n g syst e m for the  assessment of heart event related risk factors using association analysis based on the apriori algorithm. The events investigated were: myocardial infarction \(MI\aneous coronary intervention \(PCI\ and coronary artery bypass graft surgery CABG\re are several factors that contribute to the development of a coronary heart event. These risk factors may be classified into two categories: \(i\ncludes factors that cannot be altered by intervention such as age gender, family history and genetic attributes,\(ii\ble currently includes smoking, elevated cholesterol hypertension, and diabetes. This can be monitored / lowered with the doctorês advice and medications so that the incidence of heart episodes can be lowered. The risk of coronary heart disease \(CHD\ient may be reduced through a proper control of these factors by EUROASPIRE I, II, and III surveys Thus, data mining could help in the identification of high and low risk subgroups of patients, a decisive factor for the selection of therapy, i.e. medical or surgical Effective algorithm of mining frequent itemsets for associ s pr opo sed the  A p rioriFREQ  algorithm by Combining the generation and anti-monotone of itemsets, which was the improvement of Apriori algorithm. In this paper, the author has proposed the concepts of the generation and the ordinal itemsets tree to describe the vegetal ability of the supersets of frequent itemsets in the lattice Through the study of association rules the author has concluded that all frequent itemsets are not all vegetal itemsets and all vegetal itemsets are all frequent itemsets. AprioriFREQ algorithm can reduce the cardinal number of the candidate itemsets and improve the efficiency of mining association rules effectively when the distribution of the cardinal number of itemsets is symmetrical; otherwise the efficiency of algorithm AprioriFREQ will be the same as the Apriori's C Granular Computing  and W3C Applications Vaibhav Sharma s prop ose d a  gran ular com pu t i ng based algorithm for extracting association rules. The author compares the running time between the presented algorithm and the Apriori algorithm and its running procedure was illustrated by a real world example. The proposed algorithm can efficiently reduce the number of candidate elements, and avoids repeatedly scanning the information table Dhivya [1 ha s propose d a new d a ta structure nam ed  Compressed FP-Tree and an algorithm named CT-PRO that performs better than other algorithms. The CT-Apriori algorithm uses a compact tree structure, called CT-tree, to compress the original transactional data and to generate frequent patterns quickly by skipping the initial database scan and reducing a great amount of I/O time per database scan. The CT-PRO algorithm uses a compact tree structure called CFPTree, which is more compact than the FP-Tree of the FPGrowth algorithm. The CT-PRO algorithm divides the CFPTree into several projections represented by CFP-Trees. Then CT-PRO conquers the CFP-Tree for mining all frequent patterns in each projection. The execution speed results also indicated that the CT-PRO algorithm was the fastest among all the algorithms PCAR: an Efficient Approach for Mining Association Rules has been proposed by Peie r uni ng-Classifi c a tion Association Rule \(PCAR\ algorithm is meant for mining association rule at large volumes of items and small frequency of itemsets. PCAR first deletes infrequent items from itemsets then classifies itemsets based on frequency of itemsets, finally discovers frequent itemsets. It reduces number of candidate itemsets, therefore operation time and memory requirement could be decreased D Soft Computing Applications Mirela Pa proposed an efficie nt v e rsi on of APRIORI algorithm namely Depth First Multi-Level Apriori DFMLA\ for mining multi-level association rules in large databases to solve market-basket problem. The mining of multiple level rules can provide more information for the users enhances the flexibility and power of data mining systems DFMLA algorithm uses the benefits of multi-leveled databases by using the information gained by studying items from one concept level for the study of the items from the following concept levels. This algorithm finds new rules by using the 


 978-1-4673-0671-3/11/$26.00©2011 IEEE   214 IEEE-ICoAC 2011  knowledge gained from previously found rules. If a rule fails at the first concept level many rules from the following concept levels wonêt be studied and thus, the more concept levels a database has, the faster it will be to get results compared to other algorithms. Finally the author concludes that, DFMLA was a simple, practical, straight forward and fast algorithm for finding all frequent itemsets III P ROPOSED SYSTEM  From the existing methodologies it is not easy to solve crucial problems faced in the field of biological science in case of emergencies. In the Bio-medical field huge volumes of data are predominantly increasing time to time. This leads in identifying an efficient algorithm for predicting the frequent patterns from the biological sequences. The existing algorithm doesnêt satisfy the researchers or find the solution to the real time problem under various situations due to the time complexity, space and accuracy. These problems could be rectified by the proposed system which is illustrated in Fig.4 and Fig.5 in two steps 1 Find an efficient algorithm based on three factors such as time, memory and precision 2 Find the dominating frequent patterns from biological sequences using Association rule mining algorithms From the literature, Genome-sequencing projects  currently producing an enormous amount of new sequences and cause the rapid increasing of protein sequence databases The unsupervised classification of these data into functional groups or families, clustering, has become one of the principal research objectives in structural and functional genomics Computer programs could automatically and accurately classify sequences into families become a necessity A significant number of methods have addressed the clustering of protein sequences and most of them can be categorized in three major groups: hierarchical, graph-based and partitioning methods. Among the various sequence clustering methods, hierarchical and graph-based approaches have been widely used. Although partitioning clustering techniques are extremely used in other fields, few applications have been found in the field of protein sequence clustering. It is not fully demonstrated if partitioning methods can be applied to protein sequence data and if these methods can be efficient compared to the published methods Association rule mining algorithms are generally meant for mining frequent itemsets. The frequent itemsets could be generated in two ways, such as follows a Mining frequent patterns using candidate generation o Apriori algorithm o Dynamic Itemset Counting algorithm b Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation o Frequent Pattern-Tree growth algorithm The proposed model PROCAD in Fig. 4 illustrates the comparative status of an efficient algorithm and in turn to discover dominating patterns from known to unknown sequence. Fig. 5 focuses on efficiently applying Association rule mining algorithms over protein sequence datasets, and predicts frequent patterns with candidate generation and without candidate generation from the comparative study which results in identifying an efficient algorithm as illustrated in Fig. 6  Mining Methods Time Analysis Memory Analysis Precision  Apriori  DIC  FP_Tree Comparative Analysis  Graphical View  Report View Associative Pattern Discovery PROCAD  Apriori  DIC  FP_Tree  Apriori  DIC  FP_Tree Frequent Pattern Discovery Confidence Measures Report  Analyzed report  Graphical view  Figure 4 Architecture of the proposed model to find an efficient algorithm based on time, memory and precision  Associative Pattern Discovery Load datasets Select the protein sequence Assign Transaction IDs From the datasets divide attributes into equal intervals and name unique TID Frequent Patten Discovery Apriori Algorithm Confidence Measures Apply association rules for the obtained frequent itemsets Report  Graphical view  Analyzed report  Figure 5 Architecture of the Associative Pattern Discovery Module 


 978-1-4673-0671-3/11/$26.00©2011 IEEE   215 IEEE-ICoAC 2011    Read the protein sequence data Read the protein sequence data Read the protein Use Apriori algorithm to generate the frequent itemsets Use DIC algorithm to generate the frequent itemsets Use FP-Tree algorithm to generate the frequent itemsets Extract the frequent itemsets from the data sets by applying the Strong association rules Apply Strong association rules for the obtained frequent itemsets  Apply Strong association rules for the obtained frequent itemsets  The dominating amino acids are predicted and analyzed with the confidence greater than 95 for causing the viral disease Data sets  Human data\(real time  ExPASY Protein data sets Cluster the protein data sets  Figure 6 Comparative study on predicted results  IV C ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK  From the study of literature, it is known that an efficient algorithm is required to predict frequent pattern. The survey concludes that frequent itemsets could be generated from a clustered protein sequence which causes the viral disease in human. Among the generated frequent itemsets few amino acids may be found to be strongly associated. Using the results retrieved from the clustered protein sequence, a focus has to be given on the most dominating amino acids by forming association rules. Various protein sequences could be applied on the proposed system which is being developed for identifying the dominating amino acids. Further investigation will be involved by mining frequent itemsets with and without candidate generation and their results will be compared with the predicted results. In future this work could be extended to other protein sequence which causes other viral disease like flue, Dengue Fever, viral fever, swine flu, etc. Finally this work helps and it is more beneficial in preparing medicines to cure the disease caused by these viral infections during the case of emergency R EFERENCES  1 Z a lak V V y a s A m it P  G a n a tr a, D r Y.P Ko s t a  an d  C K Bh es a d ad i a    Modified RAAT \(Reduced Apriori Algorithm using Tag\r Efficiency Improvement with EP\(Emerging Patterns\nd JEP\(Jumping EP International Conference on Advances in Computer Engineering, DOI 10.1109/ACE.2010.92  Y i w u Xie Y u tong L i  C hunli Wa ng a nd M i ngy u Lu  T he O p ti m i za tion and Improvement of the Apriori Algorithmé, Intelligent Information Technology Application Workshops, 2008, IITAW '08, pp. 1101 Ö 1103  F a ngy i  Wa ng E r ka ng Wa ng a nd B o we n C h e n   T he  Re s e a r c h of  Improved Apriori Algorithm for Mining Association Rules.é, 11 th IEEE International Conference on Communication Technology, ICCT 2008 ISBN: 978-1-4244-2250-0, pp-513-516  Le i Ji  Ba ow e n Z h a ng a nd Jia nhua  L i  A N e w I m pro ve m e n t on Aprio ri  Algorithmé, International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Security, Vol-1 pp. 84-844  H A N F e ng Z HAN G Shu-m a o  a nd DU  Y i ng-shua ng T he a n a l y s is a n d  improvement of Apriori algorithmé, Journal of Communication and Computer, ISSN1548-7709, 2008, USA, Volume 5  Aga rwa l, I m i e li e n ski  a nd Swami  Mining As soc i a tion R u le s b e twee n  Sets of Items in Large Databasesé,Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of data, 1993, pp.  207-216  A n a ndha v a lli, I A C S I T IA EN G, Ghose a nd Ga uth am an Ass oc i a tio n  Rule Mining in Genomicsé International Journal of Computer Theory and Engineering, 2010, Vol. 2, No. 2  F a n M i n Youxi Wu a nd X i ndong Wu   T he Aprio ri P r o p e r ty of  Sequence Pattern Mining with Wildcard Gapsé IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine Workshops, 2010   C h ie n-Hua  Wa ng, We i-Hsua n Lee  a nd C h inTz ong Pa ng  A pply ing  Fuzzy FP-Growth to Mine Fuzzy Association Rulesé World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 65, 2010   Z h i L i u  Guo m i n g S a ng a nd M i ngyu L u A Vec tor O p e r a t ion Ba s e d  Fast Association Rules Mining Algorithmé, International Joint Conference on Bioinformatics, Systems Biology and Intelligent Computing, 2009  Ka r a ol is Mouti r i s, P a p a c onsta nt ino u a nd Pa ttic his  A ssoc i a ti on R u le  Analysis for the Assessment of the Risk of Coronary Heart Events Annual International Conference of the IEEE EMBS Minneapolis Minnesota, USA, 2009  P e i-qi L i n  Ze ngz h i L i  a nd Yi nlu ng Z h a o  E ff e c tiv e Al gor it hm  of  Mining Frequent Itemsets for Association Rules", Proceedmgs of the Third International Conference on Machine Leaming and Cybemetics Shanghai, 2004  V a i b ha v Sh a r m a  a nd Sufy a n B e g  A Proba bi listic A ppr oa c h to Apriori Algorithmé IEEE International Conference on Granular Computing 2010   D h ivya  a nd K a lp a n a    A St udy on the P e r f orm a n c e  of C T A PR I O R I  and CT-PRO Algorithms using Compressed Structures for Pattern Miningé Journal of Global Research in Computer Science Volume 1 No.2, 2010  P e i e n  Fe ng H u i Zh a ng  Q i ngy in g Q i u a nd Z h a o xia  Wa ng \(2 008   PCAR: an Efficient Approach for Mining Association Rulesé Fifth International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery  M i re la P a t e r a nd Da ni e l a E   P o pe s c u  M a r ke tBa sk e t Problem Solv e d  With Depth First Multi-Level Apriori Mining Algorithmé, 3rd International Workshop on Soft Computing Applications, 2009  S o nde s F a ye c h   N a d i a  Ess o u s si a nd M oham e d L i na m  Pa rtit ioning clustering algorithms for protein sequence data setsé, Published in BioData Mining 2009, vol. 2:3   


a A       V, W, X Y Absolute value of temperatures All other factors, as well as A Growth rate 1 1   Figure 4.  Growth tendency of electricity consumption and corresponding national economic accounts indices of a municipality  Figure 5.  Growth tendency of electricity consumption and corresponding population, investment, trade and price indices of a municipality IV. EMPIRICAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The main process of mining fuzzy association rules can be divided into four steps: First, the candidate factors are standardized and then transformed into fuzzy attributes by using the membership functions. Second, large fuzzy patterns are generated from the database by applying particular algorithm depicted in Fig.1. Then, Based on the large fuzzy patterns, the desired fuzzy association rules with the minimum confidence \(min_conf = 0.5 value of confidence, the quantitative association degrees between electricity consumption and its influencing factors are finally achieved. Table 2 shows the empirical results. The conclusion on dominant factors identification is displayed as well Figure 6.  Growth tendency of electricity consumption and corresponding income, industiral value, and government finace indices of a municipality TABLE II.  EMPIRICAL RESULTS No. Association Rules Conf. Conclusion 1 T? A 0.665 


Dominant factors: Output value of industry, Secondary industry product, GPD, as well as Per capita GDP 2 D? A 0.649 3 G? A 0.644 4 B? A 0.613 5 R? A 0.575 Sub-dominant factors: Total value of imports and exports Per capita disposable income Non-agricultural population Total investment in fixed assets and Peak summer temperature 6 J? A 0.556 7 AB? A 0.555 8 F? A 0.537 9 V? A 0.520  The analytical result shows a heavy dependence of electricity consumption, and hence the power load growth, on industrial output value and per capita GDP Total value of imports and exports, income, nonagricultural population and total investment in fixed assets are found out as the sub-dominant factors to growth in electricity Weather conditions in summer influence peak load level, along with the proliferation of air conditioning load. Peak summer temperature is thus found relevant to some extent as well. The remaining 18 candidate variables, therefore, are suggested to be ignored in power load analysis and forecast V. CONCLUSION In this paper, we have introduced a new data mining methodology to investigate association degrees between Chinese power load growth and 27 different candidate factors This methodology offers some advantages as, for example allowing us to properly extract interesting association rules from large historical database. By ordering confidence of selected rules, four dominant factors and five sub-dominant factors boosting the electricity consumption in China are identified, which can been adopted for better understanding the growth law and more accurately predicting the electricity demand Future work includes the development of a new prediction 


method for electricity demand using the dominant variables identified in this research as inputs. Furthermore, other data mining techniques, such as clustering analysis, are also being considered REFERENCES 1] J. Kraft, A. Kraft, On the relationship between energy and GNP Journal of Energy and Development, vol.3, pp.401-403, 1978 2] E. S. H. Yu, J. Y. Choi, The causal relationship between electricity and GNP: an international comparison, Journal of Energy and Development vol.10, pp.249-272, 1985 3] U. Erol, E. S. H. Yu, On the relationship between electricity and income for industrialized countries, Journal of Electricity and Employment, vol.13, pp.113-122, 1987 4] D. C. Bohm, Electricity consumption and economic growth in the European Union: A causality study using panel unit root and cointegration analysis, 5th International Conference on European Electricity Market, 2008 5] A. Ciarreta, A. Zarraga, Economic growth and electricity consumption in 12 European countries: A Causality Analysis Using Panel Data, 6th International Conference on the European Energy Market, Leuven, 2009 6] U. Soytas, R. Sari, Energy consumption and GDP: causality relationship in G-7 countries and emerging markets, Energy Economics pp.33-37, 2003 7] S. H. Yoo, Electricity consumption and economic growth: evidence from Korea, Energy Policy, pp.1627-1632, 2005 8] C. C. Lee, Energy consumption and GDP in developing countries: A cointegrated analysis, Energy Economics, pp.415-427, 2005 9] S. T. Chen, H. I. Kuo, C. C. Chen, The relationship between GDP and electricity consumption in 10 Asian countries, Energy Policy, pp.26112621, 2007 10] C. C. Lee, C. P. Chang, Energy consumption and economic growth in Asian economies: A more comprehensive analysis using panel data Resource and Energy Economics, pp.50-65, 2008 11] A. Shiu, P. L. Lam, Electricity consumption and economic growth in China, Energy Policy, pp.47-54, 2004 12] G. D. Li, D. Yamaguchi, H. S. Lin, The simulation modeling about the developments of GDP, population and primary energy consumption in China based on MATLAB, 2006 IEEE Conference on Cybernetics and Intelligent Systems, Bangkok, 2006 13] L. P. Wang, Study on the relationship between economic development and energy consumption in Henan Province of China, 2008 International Seminar on Business and Information Management, 2008 


14] X. Zhang, Y. Mao, The relationship between energy consumption and economic growth in China based on ANFIS, International Workshop on Intelligent Systems and Application, ISA2009, Wuhan, 2009 15] H. R. Cui, D. Wang, The study on the relationship between energy consumption and economy growth in China based on VAR model 2009 First International Workshop on Database Technology and Applications, 2009 16] M. Delgado, N. Marn, D. Snchez, M. A. Vila, Fuzzy association rules general model and applications, IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems vol.2, pp.214-225, 2003 17] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, A. Swami, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of data. Washington DC, pp.207-216, 1993 18] D. Dubois, H. Prade, T. Sudkamp, On the representation, measurement and discovery of fuzzy associations, IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, vol.2, pp.250-262, 2005   


means that the service is in the same branch, but at a lower level in the hierarchy of services execution. Therefore, this service will only be conducted if an error has occurred in the execution of the previous one. As shown in chart II the latter service uses an image resource in charge of showing some information at the MIDlet display and whose content is also stored on the device Besides, the MIDlet allows in a simple way to modify all those parameters that define the execution of the services and their use. As commented before, a user could not want that a service is executed automatically and requires manual confirmation. For that, he/she only would need to change the value of the execution parameter of the service into manual. In the same way, the user can activate or deactivate the use of resources just by modifying the value of the state attribute into off. Even more, it is possible to add new resources, if, together with their definition some content needed for their execution is included Therefore, it can be checked as, even when the user define an initial interaction for a scenario and even when the same deployment is done in different devices, each user could easily adapt and customize the interaction to its needs and preferences afterwards Equally, the user could activate or deactivate a service changing the execution order and modifying the hierarchy initially defined for them. Herewith, the same scenario could be customized and act in a different way depending of the person that interacts with it V. DISCUSSION IoT is not a reality yet, but a prospective view of a series of technologies that, combined, could sharply modify the interaction mode with our environment and the working of our society in the following years. In order to establish the IoT philosophy, it would be needed an advance of the development and dissemination of elements as sensors, new communication technologies \(as well as their intercommunication mobile devices able to integrate them, a proper infrastructure and above all software applications that supports them and are able to integrate all those elements, as well as to fulfills the needs and requirements of the users Those new systems must also be adapted to the different interaction scenarios and, mainly, to the different 


characteristics, requirements, preferences and needs of the people that interact with the environment. In this paper we present a model that provides a solution to this issue The model is based in augment different objects among a scenario with Tags, by the assignment of services and resources defined in an abstracted hierarchy that allows configuring a customized interaction model. Thus, for the same scenario, the model is able to define different interaction contexts. So, a context is defined as the aggregation of: a certain scenario formed by a set of intelligent objects offering a set of services, b characteristics, preferences and needs, c and d Under the proposed model a tool that allows the definition and scenario deployment has been built. A neuter MIDlet installed in the NFC device is the one in charge of guiding the 13 interaction through the definition of the scenarios stored in a XML file. This architecture allows that the same MIDlet could be used with any scenario and that the user could adapt the interaction to his preferences Currently we are working in the completeness of the model and the complex interaction scenarios generalization, being the latter based in rules systems that allows adapting the different interaction contexts to the users ACKNOWLEDGMENT This work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Innovation of Spain \(MICINN Project TIN2009-07184 REFERENCES 1] M. Weiser. The Computer for the Twenty-First Century. Scientific American, 1991, pp. 91-104 2] G. Broll, S . Siorpaes, E. Rukzio, M. Paolucci, J. Hamard, M. Wagner and A. Schmidt. Supporting Mobile Service Usage through Physical Mobile Interaction, 5th Annual IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications, White Plains,NY, USA 2007 3] C. Floerkemeier, M. Langheinrich, E. Fleisch, F. Mattern and S.E Sarma. The Internet of Things. Proceedings of First International Conference, IOT 2008, Zurich, Switzerland. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 4952, 2008 4] Revising Europes ICT Strategy, ftp://ftp.cordis.europa.eu/pub/ist/docs 


istag-revising-europesict-strategy-final-version_en.pdf 5] E. Rukzio, G. Broll, K. Leichtenstern, A. Schmidt. Mobile Interaction with the Real World: An Evaluation and Comparison of Physical Mobile Interaction Technique, Ambient Intelligence. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 4794, 2007, pp. 1-18 6] J. Hong and E. Suh, S. Kim. Context-aware systems: A literature review and classification, Expert Systems with Applications. 2009 Elsevier 7] A.K. Dey and G.D. Abowd. Towards a better understanding of context and context-awareness, Proceedings of the Workshop on the What Who, Where, When and How of Context-Awareness, ACM Press, New York. 2000 8] H. Chen, T. Finin and A. Joshi.An Intelligent Broker for ContextAware Systems, Adjunct Proceedings of Ubicomp 2003 9] H. Chen, F. Perich, T. Finin, A. Joshi. SOUPA: standard ontology for ubiquitous and pervasive applications, The First Annual International Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Systems: Networking and Services, 2004, MOBIQUITOUS 2004 10] M. Roman, C. Hess, R. Cerqueira, A. Ranganathan, R.H. Campbell and K. Nahrstedt. GAIA: A middleware infrastructure for active spaces IEEE Pervasive Computing, vol. 1, no. 4, 2002, pp. 74-83 11] Service Platform for Innovative Communication Environment \(SPICE An Integrated Project in European Unions IST 6th Framework Programme, http://www.ist-spice.org 12] Open Platform for User-centric service Creation and Execution OPUCE Framework Programme, http://www.opuce.tid.es 13] MobiLife, an Integrated Project in European Unions IST 6th Framework Programme, http://www.ist-mobilife.org 14] L. Lamorte. A platform for enabling context aware telecommunication services, Third Workshop on Context Awareness for Proactive Systems. 2007 15] C. Venezia, C.A. Licciardi Improve ubiquitous Web applications with Context Awareness, 11th ICIN 2007 16] J.J. Chen, C. Adams. Short-range wireless technologies with mobile payments systems, Proc. ICEC 04, ACM Press, 2004, pp. 649 656 17] K. Cheverst. Experiences of developing and deploying a context-aware tourist guide: The GUIDE project, 6th International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking, Boston, August 2000, pp. 2031 18] D.J. Cooka, J.C. Augusto, V.R. Jakkula, Ambient intelligence Technologies, applications, and opportunitie, Pervasive and Mobile Computing. 2009 


19] J. Hong, E. Suh, S. Kim. Context-aware systems: A literature review and classification, Expert Systems with Applications. Elsevier. 2008 20] G. Matas Miraz, I. Luque Ruiz, M.A. Gmez-Nieto. How NFC can be used for the Compliance of European Higher Education Area Guidelines in European Universities. Proceedings 1st International IEEE Workshop on Near Field Communication. 3-8. 2009   14 


dataset contains a stream of TCP connection records from two weeks of LAN traffic over MIT Lincoln Labs. It consists of 42 attributes that usually characterize network traffic behavior, both categorical attributes and quantitative attributes such as duration of the connections, protocol type etc. Attribute src_byte denoting the number of data bytes from source to destination and attribute dst_bytes inverse are selected in this experiment.  They are both quantitative attributes The user specified parameters are set as follows 5, 0.3, 0.03, 0.01,W min_sup preMinsup T 0.5, 0.4, 30.min_confidence max_MFB min_num_triples And the number of transactions in each time slot is 250 It is assumed that there are no more than three fuzzy sets or intervals in the datasets i.e. 3F Four different approaches to mine association rules are compared using the following notations: Fuzzy+MFB: the approach that use both fuzzy method and MFB_measure with 1 3.0? = and 2 0 .5 2 0.5? = , Fuzzy+P: the approach using fuzzy method with 1 3.0? = and 2 0.5? = also but repressing the first part of the MFB_measure that ignores the changed rate of the membership function, Discrete1: the approach using discrete method with 1 2 1.5? ?= =  and Discrete2 : the approach using discrete method with 1 2 2.5 TABLE I. RESULT OF EXPERIMENT ONE NUM_C NUM_FI NUM_RULE TIME\(s 1 \(50,50 2 \(60,60 3 \(70,70 4 \(80,80 5 \(90,90 6 \(100,100 7 \(110,110 8 \(120,120 9 \(130,130 10 \(140,140 Volume 4] 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology V4-157 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 x 104 


0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 Size of Databases\(250 Ex ec u tio n Ti m e\(s ec  Fuzzy+MFB Discrete1 Discrete2 Fuzzy+P Figure 3. Comparison of Execution Time Fig. 3 shows the execution time of the four approaches The runtimes of them grow linearly as the data stream grows which confirms that they are scalable with respect to the size of data stream, and it is mainly because of the usage of sliding window model. Fuzzy+P uses the least time Fuzzy+MFB has similar execution time to Discrete2, and Discrete1 has the most execution time. The difference of runtimes between them is mainly influenced by the clustering operations they use. The more clustering operations were executed, the more runtime it was Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 show the number of frequent itemsets and interesting rules found with the data stream increased Fuzzy+P and Fuzzy+MFB used less clustering operations than Discrete1 and Discrete2. Fuzzy+MFB nearly finds the most number of frequent fuzzy sets and interesting rules with the second least of clustering operations. Sometimes Discrete2 returns nearly the same number of fuzzy sets and interesting rules but with more clustering operations and the 


semantics of Discrete2 are meaningless as discussed in experiment one. Furthermore, the number of interesting rules found by Discrete1 is even less than Fuzzy+P that used the clustering operations least which illustrates the superiority of the method using fuzzy sets V. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, a novel fuzzy ARM algorithm called FFI_Stream is presented to tackle quantitative attributes in data streams and some techniques are proposed in the algorithm. Both synthetic and real datasets are used to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm. The experimental results show both the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed algorithm.  In comparison with the discrete method, the proposed algorithm using fuzzy sets and MFB_measure gets a trade-off between the number of interesting rules and efficiency ACKNOWLEDGMENT This work is supported by The National High Technology Research and Development Program of China 863 Program 2008AA042902 Technology Research and Development Program of China 863 Program 2009AA04Z162 Project \(B07031 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 Size of Databases\(250 N um be r o f F re qu e n t I 


te m se ts Fuzzy+MFB Discrete2 Discrete1 Fuzzy+P Clustering Operation Figure 4. Number of Frequent Itemsets 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 Size of Databases\(250 Nu m be r o f I n te re st in g Ru le s Fuzzy+MFB Discrete2 Discrete1 Fuzzy+P Clustering Operation Figure 5. Number of Interesting Rules REFERENCE 1] R. Srikant and R. Agrawal, Mining Quantitative Association Rules 


in Large Relational Talbes, Proc. ACM SIGMOD, 1996, pp. 1-12 2] A.W. Fu et al. Finding Fuzzy Sets for the Mining of Fuzzy Association Rules for Numerical Attributes, In Proceedings of the First International Symposium on Intelligent Data Engineering and Learning \(IDEAL'98 3] C. M. Kuok, A. Fu and M. H . Wong, Fuzzy Association Rules in Large Databases with Quantitative Attributes, In ACM SIGMOD Records, vol. 27, 1998, pp. 41-46 4] X. Dang, V. Lee, W. K. Ng and K.L Ong, Incremental and Adaptive Clustering Stream Data over Sliding Window, Database and Expert Systems Applications, vol. 5690, 2009, pp. 660-674 5] M. Kaya,?R. Alhajj, F. Polat, and A. Arslan, Efficient Automated Mining of Fuzzy Association Rules, Database and Expert System Applicaton, vol. 2453, 2002, pp.133-142 6] http://kdd.ics.uci.edu/databases/kddcup99/kddcup99.html 7] S. Guha, A. N. Mishra, R. Motwani, L. OCallaghan, Clustering Data Streams: Theory and Practice,  Proc. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 15, May/Jun. 2003, pp. 515528 8] C. Aggarwal, J. Han, J. Wang, P. Yu, A Framework for Clustering Evolving Data Streams,  Proc. VLDB Conference, 2003,  pp. 81-92 9] C. K. S. Leung, B. Y. Hao, Mining of Frequent Itemsets from Streams of Uncertain Data,  Proc. IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 09 10] C. C. Aggarwal, Y. Li, J. Y. Wang, and J. Wang, Frequent Pattern Mining with Uncertain Data, Proc. ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Jun. 2009, pp 29-37 11] P. M. Tsai, Mining Frequent Itemsets in Data Streams using the Weighted Sliding Window Model, Expert Systems and Applications vol. 36, Nov. 2009, pp.11617-11625 V4-158 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology [Volume 4 


In all charts reported in this section, the X-axis is k, which denotes the size of sample under the space of a target rule drawn from deep web. The sample size for each point on X-axis is k x, where x is a ?xed value for our experiment, and depends upon the dataset. At each time, queries are issued to obtain kx data records under the space of a target rule. Overall, all our experiments show the variance of estimation, sampling costs and sampling accuracy with varying sample size Figure 1 shows the result from our strati?ed sample methods on the US census data set. The size of pilot sample is 2000, from which all of the 50 initial rules are derived. In this experiment the ?xed value x is set to be 300, which means the smallest sample size at k = 1 is 300, and the largest sample size at k 10 is 3000. Figure 1 a the ?ve sampling procedures. Figure 1 b cost for the sampling procedures. In order to better illustrate the experiment result, in each execution of sampling, the variance of 330 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH            9D UL DQ FH R I V WL PD WL RQ  


9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW           6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF            5 


 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 1. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Association Rule Mining on US Census Dataset estimation and sampling cost for the sampling procedures var7 var5, var3, and rand are normalized by the corresponding values of Full Var. Thus, in our experiment, the values of sampling cost and variance of estimation for sampling procedure Full Var are all 1. Furthermore, Figure 1 c sampling procedures From Figure 1 a pared with sampling procedures Var7, Var5 and Var3, Full Var has the lowest estimation variance and the highest sampling cost. From sampling procedures Var7, Var5, and Var3, we can see a pattern that the variance of estimation increases, and the sampling cost decreases consistently with the decrease of the weight for variance of estimation. At the largest sample size of k = 10, the estimation variance of sampling procedure Var3 is increased by 27% and the sampling cost is decreased by 40 compared with sampling procedure Full Var. The experiment shows that our method decreases the sampling cost ef?ciently by trading off a percent of variance of estimation. Similar to variance of estimation, the sampling accuracy of these procedures also decreases with the decrease of the weight on variance of estimation. For the largest sample size at k = 10, we can see that the AER of sampling procedure Var3 is increased by 20 compared with sampling procedure Full Var. However, for many users, increase of the AER will be acceptable, since the sampling cost is decreased by 40%. By setting the weights for sampling variance and sampling cost, users would be able to control the trade-off between the variance of estimation, sampling cost, and estimation accuracy In addition, compared with sampling procedure of Full Var Var7, Var5, and Var3, sampling procedure Random, has higher estimation of variance, sampling cost and lower estimation accuracy. Thus, our approach clearly results in more effective methods than using simple random sampling for data mining on the deep web Figure 2 shows the experiment result of our proposed strati?ed 


sampling methods on the Yahoo! data set. The size of pilot sample on this data set is 2,000, and the ?xed value x for sample size is 200. The results are similar to those from the US census dataset. We can still see the pattern of the variance of estimation increasing with the decrease of its weight. Besides, the sampling accuracy is also similar to the variance of estimation. However although the variance estimation of sampling procedure Random is 60% larger than sampling procedure Full Var, the sampling cost of Random is 2% smaller than Full Var. This is because Full Var does not consider sampling cost. It is possible that Full Var assigns a large sample to a stratum with low ?, which denotes the probability of containing data records under the space of A = a, resulting the larger sampling cost than that of simple random sampling. Sampling procedures Var7, Var5, Var3 consider sampling cost as well, and have smaller variance estimation and sampling cost, compared with Random. Furthermore, Random has smaller sampling accuracy than Full Var, Var7 and Var5, but has larger sampling accuracy than Var3. This is because Var3 assigns much more importance to the sampling cost, and loses accuracy to a large extent To summarize, our results shows that our proposed strati?ed sampling are clearly more effective than simple random sampling on the deep web. Moreover, our approach allows users to tradeoff variance of estimation and sampling accuracy to some extent while achieving a large reduction in sampling costs B. Differential Rule Mining In this section, we present results from experiments based on differential rule mining. Particularly, we look at the rules of the form A = a ? D1\(t t categorical attribute and t is an output numerical attribute, while other categorical attributes in the data set are considered as input attributes In this experiment, we also evaluate our proposed method with different weights assigned to variance of estimation and sampling cost. Five sampling procedures, Full Var, Var7, Var5,Var3 and Random, have same meanings with those in the experiments of association rule mining. Similarly, 50 rules are randomly selected from the datasets, and each of the 50 differential rules are reprocessed 100 times using 100 different \(pilot sample, sample iterations 5000 runs First, we evaluated the performance of these procedures on 


the US census data set. The size of pilot sample is 2000, and all 50 rules are derived from this pilot sample. In this experiment the ?xed value x for the sample size is set to be 300. The attribute income is considered as a differential attribute, and the difference of income of husband and wife is studied in this experiment. Figure 3 shows the performance of the 5 sampling 331 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH             9D UL DQ FH R I V WL PD WL RQ  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW    


      6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF          5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 2. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Association Rule Mining on the Yahoo! Dataset procedures on the problem of differential rule mining on the US census data set. The results are also similar to the experiment results for association rule mining: there is a consistent trade off between the estimation variance and sampling cost by setting their weights. Our proposed methods have better performance than simple random sampling method 


We also evaluated the performance of our methods on the Yahoo! dataset. The size of pilot sampling is 2000, and the xed value x for the sample size is 200. The attribute price is considered as the target attribute. Figure 4 shows the performance of the 5 sampling procedures on the problem of differential rule mining on the Yahoo! dataset. The results are very similar to those from the previous experiments VI. RELATED WORK We now compare our work with the existing work on sampling for association rule mining, sampling for database aggregation queries, and sampling for the deep web Sampling for Association Rule Mining: Sampling for frequent itemset mining and association rule mining has been studied by several researchers [23], [21], [11], [6]. Toivonen [23] proposed a random sampling method to identify the association rules which are then further veri?ed on the entire database. Progressive sampling [21], which is based on equivalence classes, involves determining the required sample size for association rule mining FAST [11], a two-phase sampling algorithm, has been proposed to select representative transactions, with the goal of reducing computation cost in association rule mining.A randomized counting algorithm [6] has been developed based on the Markov chain Monte Carlo method for counting the number of frequent itemsets Our work is different from these sampling methods, since we consider the problem of association rule mining on the deep web. Because the data records are hidden under limited query interfaces in these systems, sampling involves very distinct challenges Sampling for Aggregation Queries: Sampling algorithms have also been studied in the context of aggregation queries on large data bases [18], [1], [19], [25]. Approximate Pre-Aggregation APA  categorical data utilizing precomputed statistics about the dataset Wu et al. [25] proposed a Bayesian method for guessing the extreme values in a dataset based on the learned query shape pattern and characteristics from previous workloads More closely to our work, Afrati et al. [1] proposed an adaptive sampling algorithm for answering aggregation queries on hierarchical structures. They focused on adaptively adjusting the sample size assigned to each group based on the estimation error in each group. Joshi et al.[19] considered the problem of 


estimating the result of an aggregate query with a very low selectivity. A principled Bayesian framework was constructed to learn the information obtained from pilot sampling for allocating samples to strata Our methods are clearly distinct for these approaches. First strata are built dynamically in our algorithm and the relations between input and output attributes are learned for sampling on output attributes. Second, the estimation accuracy and sampling cost are optimized in our sample allocation method Hidden Web Sampling: There is recent research work [3 13], [15] on sampling from deep web, which is hidden under simple interfaces. Dasgupta et al.[13], [15] proposed HDSampler a random walk scheme over the query space provided by the interface, to select a simple random sample from hidden database Bar-Yossef et al.[3] proposed algorithms for sampling suggestions using the public suggestion interface. Our algorithm is different from their work, since our goal is sampling in the context of particular data mining tasks. We focus on achieving high accuracy with a low sampling cost for a speci?c task, instead of simple random sampling VII. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we have proposed strati?cation based sampling methods for data mining on the deep web, particularly considering association rule mining and differential rule mining Components of our approach include: 1 the relation between input attributes and output attributes of the deep web data source, 2 maximally reduce an integrated cost metric that combines estimation variance and sampling cost, and 3 allocation method that takes into account both the estimation error and the sampling costs Our experiments show that compared with simple random sampling, our methods have higher sampling accuracy and lower sampling cost. Moreover, our approach allows user to reduce sampling costs by trading-off a fraction of estimation error 332 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH      


     V WL PD WL RQ R I 9D UL DQ FH  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW          6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 


9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF          5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 3. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Differential Rule Mining on the US Census Dataset 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH             9D UL DQ FH R I V WL 


PD WL RQ  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW          6D PS OL QJ  RV W  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF         


    5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 4. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Differential Rule Mining on the Yahoo! Dataset REFERENCES 1] Foto N. Afrati, Paraskevas V. Lekeas, and Chen Li. Adaptive-sampling algorithms for answering aggregation queries on web sites. Data Knowl Eng., 64\(2 2] Rakesh Agrawal and Ramakrishnan Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, pages 487499, 1994 3] Ziv Bar-Yossef and Maxim Gurevich. Mining search engine query logs via suggestion sampling. Proc. VLDB Endow., 1\(1 4] Stephen D. Bay and Michael J. Pazzani. Detecting group differences Mining contrast sets. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 5\(3 246, 2001 5] M. K. Bergman. The Deep Web: Surfacing Hidden Value. Journal of Electronic Publishing, 7, 2001 6] Mario Boley and Henrik Grosskreutz. A randomized approach for approximating the number of frequent sets. In ICDM 08: Proceedings of the 2008 Eighth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, pages 4352 Washington, DC, USA, 2008. IEEE Computer Society 7] D. Braga, S. Ceri, F. Daniel, and D. Martinenghi. Optimization of Multidomain Queries on the Web. VLDB Endowment, 1:562673, 2008 8] R. E. Ca?isch. Monte carlo and quasi-monte carlo methods. Acta Numerica 7:149, 1998 9] Andrea Cali and Davide Martinenghi. Querying Data under Access Limitations. In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Data Engineering, pages 5059, 2008 10] Bin Chen, Peter Haas, and Peter Scheuermann. A new two-phase sampling based algorithm for discovering association rules. In KDD 02: Proceedings of the eighth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 462468, New York, NY, USA, 2002 ACM 


11] W. Cochran. Sampling Techniques. Wiley and Sons, 1977 12] Arjun Dasgupta, Gautam Das, and Heikki Mannila. A random walk approach to sampling hidden databases. In SIGMOD 07: Proceedings of the 2007 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data pages 629640, New York, NY, USA, 2007. ACM 13] Arjun Dasgupta, Xin Jin, Bradley Jewell, Nan Zhang, and Gautam Das Unbiased estimation of size and other aggregates over hidden web databases In SIGMOD 10: Proceedings of the 2010 international conference on Management of data, pages 855866, New York, NY, USA, 2010. ACM 14] Arjun Dasgupta, Nan Zhang, and Gautam Das. Leveraging count information in sampling hidden databases. In ICDE 09: Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering, pages 329340 Washington, DC, USA, 2009. IEEE Computer Society 15] Loekito Elsa and Bailey James. Mining in?uential attributes that capture class and group contrast behaviour. In CIKM 08: Proceeding of the 17th ACM conference on Information and knowledge management, pages 971 980, New York, NY, USA, 2008. ACM 16] E.K. Foreman. Survey sampling principles. Marcel Dekker publishers, 1991 17] Ruoming Jin, Leonid Glimcher, Chris Jermaine, and Gagan Agrawal. New sampling-based estimators for olap queries. In ICDE, page 18, 2006 18] Shantanu Joshi and Christopher M. Jermaine. Robust strati?ed sampling plans for low selectivity queries. In ICDE, pages 199208, 2008 19] Bing Liu. Web Data Mining: Exploring Hyperlinks, Contents, and Usage Data \(Data-Centric Systems and Applications Inc., Secaucus, NJ, USA, 2006 20] Srinivasan Parthasarathy. Ef?cient progressive sampling for association rules. In ICDM 02: Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, page 354, Washington, DC, USA, 2002. IEEE Computer Society 21] William H. Press and Glennys R. Farrar. Recursive strati?ed sampling for multidimensional monte carlo integration. Comput. Phys., 4\(2 1990 22] Hannu Toivonen. Sampling large databases for association rules. In The VLDB Journal, pages 134145. Morgan Kaufmann, 1996 23] Fan Wang, Gagan Agrawal, Ruoming Jin, and Helen Piontkivska. Snpminer A domain-speci?c deep web mining tool. In Proceedings of the 7th IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering, pages 192 199, 2007 24] Mingxi Wu and Chris Jermaine. Guessing the extreme values in a data set a bayesian method and its applications. VLDB J., 18\(2 25] Mohammed J. Zaki. Scalable algorithms for association mining. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 12:372390, 2000 


333 


