An Intelligent Trainee Selection Model Mohamad Farhan Mohamad Mohsin, Faudziah Ahmad, Aniza Mohd Din, Ku Ruhana Ku Mahamud, Roshidi Din School of Computing, UUM College of Arts & Sciences Universiti Utara Malaysia Kedah, Malaysia farhan, fudz, anizamd, ruhana, roshidi}@uum.edu.my Abstract This paper proposed an intelligent model that is aimed at facilitating key workers select suitable trainees for a training program. The proposed model is initiated because it has been found that many motivational training programs fail to meet their objectives because there is a mismatch between the needs of training programs and the integrity levels of trainees. The proposed model consists of three modules namely personality characteristics identification, training program requirements identification, and trainee selection agent. A dataset for the study called Trainees Integrity Dataset \(TID\is mined using association rule to discover important personality characteristics. TID is obtained from Langkawi District Education Office \(LDEO\nd it has 1500 respondents which represents secondary school teachers in Pulau Langkawi, Kedah, Malaysia who attended a training program organized by LDEO in 2009.  The proposed model is intended to produce an efficient selection process and suitable trainees Keyword:  selection model, intelligent, association mining data mining I.    INTRODUCTION Integrity is vital to individuals, groups, organizations and society. It is a key success to everyone and many organizations have benefited enormous performance increases when their employees own good integrity behavior. As stated in [1 not hi ng can  w o r k  without th e present o f  integ r i t y  Therefore, human resource department holds high responsibility to monitor integrity among its staff will always positions at good level. Providing appropriate motivation training is one of the actions can be taken to maintain the high level of integrity Many motivational training programs fail to meet their objectives because there is a mismatch between the needs of training programs and the integrity levels of trainees.  For example, a training program to improve teachers’ integrity would require those teachers that are problematic such as demotivated, indiscipline and abusive. Teachers who do not possess such negative attitudes would not be suitable for an integrity program.  If this category of teachers is selected by random chance, this results in a mismatch of supply and demand of needs and cause failure in integrity training programs to achieve its goals.  According to some studies selecting the wrong person can cost businesses between 30 and 200% of a person’s annual salary. If a role worth $70,000 a year is filled with the wrong candidate, it could end up costing between $21,000 and $140,000 – a loss most businesses can’t afford to m  Integ r i t y r e f ers t o  adherence to moral principles [7  i n te g r it y is crucial in order to know the level of integrity and supply the right candidate for an integrity training program Training, also known as enabling learning and personal development is essential for an organization. It helps develop quality, customer satisfaction, productivity, morale management succession, business development and profitability. Aspects of training include components such as ethics and morality; attitude and behavior; leadership and determination, as well as skills and knowledge. The most important quality which makes good performers is attitudinal Skills and knowledge, and the processes available to people are less crit hat m a kes peopl e e f fe cti ve an d v a l u a b le  to any organization is their attitude.   Attitude includes qualities that require different training and learning methods Attitude stems from a person's mind-set, belief system emotional maturity, self-confidence, and experience. Training is nothing without the motivation to apply it effectively. A strong capability to plan and manage skills training, the acquisition of knowledge, and the development of motivation and attitude, largely determines how well people perform in their training programs Trainee selection is the process of putting right men on right training program. It is a procedure of matching training program’s requirements with the skills and characteristics o f people. Effective selection can be done only when there is effective matching. By selecting best candidate for the required training program, the organization will get quality performance of employees. By selecting right candidate for the required training program, organization will also save time and money. Proper screening of candidates takes place during selection procedure Currently, selection is made through top-down or bottom-up approach.  Top-down approach usually selects candidates randomly thus, most of the time shortlist a number o f candidates who do not fit for the integrity program’s 390 


requirement.   Bottom-up approach selects candidates based on their applications and m these candidates do not fit the requirements as they do not have attitude problems and just want a short break out of their routine work.  Consequently, a mismatch of supply and demand of needs occurred and leads to unachieved goals This paper proposed an intelligent model that is aimed at facilitating key workers select suitable trainees for a training program This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 outlines the related works on integrality theory and training.  The method of the study is discussed in section 3. The proposed model will be presented in section 4 and final sections conclude this work II.   PREVIOUS WORKS Measuring the score of integrity is critical because selecting candidates with appropriate level of integrity ensures better outcomes [3, 4, 6 In ad d i tio n  m eas u res  o f in teg r i t y determine whether the training program should be modified or might work if it were implemented with appropriate requirements  Several studies have examined strategies for measuring integrity.  Howard and Howard [8 evelo ped the Fi ve Facto r  Model \(FFM\ich consists of five major personality traits to measure integrity.  The major traits include need for stability extraversion, originality, accommodation, and consolidation FFM has been found to produce consistent results over the past years and is the basis of characterizing personality [9, 10  Measuring th e i n te grit y of  a t r ain in g can dida t e can help authority such as employer and training provider to identify the levels of integrity of a person. Table 1 lists the integrity traits as stated  Table 1: Integrity Traits based on Five Factor Mo Traits Characteristics Openness Originality Imagination, openness to experience The openness of a trainee towards new experience Human with openness is said to own more intellect imaginative, curious appreciative of art, and sensitive to beauty Conscientiousness Will to achieve Consolidation A tendency to show selfdiscipline, act dutifully, and aim for achievement against measures or outside expectations Extraversion Positive Emotionality Related to positive emotions and surgency. It has tendency to Sociability seek out stimulation, has engagement with the external world, always enjoy being with people, and often equipped with full of energy as well as an action-oriented individuals Accommodation Agreeableness adaptability Is a social harmony traits and has tendency to be compassionate and cooperative rather than suspicious and antagonistic towards others Need For Stability Negative Emotionality Neuroticism Called as emotional instability that has relation to how a trainee respond to stress experience negative emotions Training programs are designed for candidates that possess a certain set of requirements.  Usually the requirements are divided into several components such as certain age group characteristics of individuals, soft skills, hard skills knowledge, and health condition. Different training programs have different requirements and identifying what requirements are needed and scoring them would allow management to know what candidates are suitable.    Thus, a mechanism to identify requirements and scoring them is needed to ensure a supply of suitable candidates Since selection is made through top-down or bottom-up approach and these methods produced shortlisted candidates who majority do not fit for the training program’s requirements.   An intelligent method could automatically select suitable candidates by matching the personality characteristics with the training program requirements The current study aimed to extend the literature on training procedures specifically producing successful training programs through a matched demand-supply mechanism III.   METHOD For this study, a set of filled questionnaires \(1500 respondents\as taken from Langkawi District Education Office \(LDEO\questionnaires were distributed to secondary school teachers in Pulau Langkawi, Kedah Malaysia when they attended a training program organized by LDEO in year 2009.   The questionnaire seeks answers to several key elements on integrity of: teachers: demographic background, need for stability, extraversion, originality accommodation, and consolidation.  Need for stability extraversion, originality, accommodation, and consolidation elements are dimensions of the Big Five model, which identifies traits and structure of human personality  Digman 1990\The filled questionnaires are input into excel and 391 


named as Trainees Integrity Dataset \(TID\The dataset, which consists of 26 columns and 1500 rows, is then preprocessed to resolve data problems such missing values, data inconsistency and outliers. It is then transformed into nominal format.  For example age of 25 to 30 is transformed into “A” and age between 31 to 35 is transformed into “B”.   This step is mandatory for analysis in association rule mining and is the part that implements “intelligence” to the model.  The patterns generated from association mining represents as important characteristics that reflect the trainee’s integrity. They will be tailored to type of training and act as a guideline for training provider to match the training requirement and candidates IV. PROPOSED MODELS The propose model, named as an Intelligent Trainee Selection Model \(ITTSM\ is displayed in Fig. 1. The proposed model consists of three modules: personality characteristics identification, training program requirements identification and trainee selection agent  Fig. 1. The proposed model \(macro level The goals of the intelligent model are to  determine the characteristics of the candidates  determine the integrity level of the candidates  matching the training programs needs  with  the identified integrity level of candidates  determine suitable candidates a Personality characteristics identification This module is aimed to identity important characteristics of trainees that reflect their integrity and their integrity score The intelligence of the proposed model can be seen in this module whereby data mining technique called association rule is used to identify the characteristic. The activity of this module is separated into 3 phases namely data collection, data preparation for mining, and pattern extraction. Fig. 2 illustratively shows the personality characteristics identification module   Weka v3.4.11       Fig. 2. The personality characteristics identification module During pattern extraction phase, association rule algorithm called apriori in WEKA data analysis tool ill be u s e d as pattern extraction tool.  TID will be presented to apriori and the knowledge generated from the algorithm will represent the important characteristics of trainees’ integrity.  The interest in this part is to investigate the weakest integrity characteristic with the hope can guide the training provider to organize training based on the area that only required by trainee. The set of integrity characteristic is shown in table 1 and theoretically, a human is normally lack at certain part of the characteristics and has ability to ch  From the mining, the rules will be ranked based on support and confident threshold and only quality characteristic will be chosen for trainee selection model. The Personality Identification Module \(PIM\an output for this module b Training program requirements identification The aim of this module is identify the requirements needed and provide total score for the training program requirements This module involves getting necessary information on entry criteria from the training provider and clustering that information into several components. Let say T 1 T 2 T n are the list of training available. The training provider will identify training criteria or component C 1 C 2 C n that required for each training such as objective of the course, age of trainees, and the main components; set of the integrity test result. Each component will be assigned with weight w as given in T n C n1 w 1 C n2 w 2 C nm w n  Then, the overall score S c for the training will be produced. The S c is an accumulative score of T n where S c  w 1  w 2    w n  The weight will be based on the expert judgment.  In this study, an expert is a LDEO. The input of the module is a list 392 


of requirements gathered from LDEO as well as an intelligent PIM which is obtained from the previous module.  PIM will be a guideline for LDEO to determine suitable training program based on personality characteristic of the candidates The output a set of training requirement segmented in several components, scores for each component, and an overall score Fig. 3 illustratively shows the training program requirements identification    Fig. 3. The training program requirements module c Trainee selection agent The trainee selection agent aims to obtain a shortlist of candidates. The process will involve matching candidates personality scores with the training requirements overall score Based on the integrity test which is required to be taken by a trainee, the result of the test will be mapped to overall score of the training. A mapping function is given as X R I S ct  whereby R I is the result of candidate integrity test result and S ct is an overall score of the training t and t is the type of training. An algorithm will be developed to perform the matching and selection.  Based on matching process, a list of candidates with ITR for the training program will be shortlisted and ranked based on the score of candidates. Fig. 4 shows the activities involves in this module.  There are two inputs required in this module that are a list of candidate profile with integrity test score and the training overall score The output is a shortlisted of trainee V.  CONCLUSION The paper proposes an intelligent model aimed at facilitating key workers select suitable trainees for a training program The model is still in the development process.  The proposed model is intended to produce an efficient selection process and suitable trainees.  By selecting suitable candidates for the required training program, the organization can obtain quality performance of trained employees, save time and money. The study is aimed to extend the literature on developing successful training programs. Moreover, our future work is also to integrate the model with neural network predictor to suggest suitable training program for trainee       Fig. 4. Trainee selection agent R EFERENCES 1  K Ch ristensen Th e M a gazine of the Rotman School of Management Fall 2009, pp. 16-20 2 M   D o wd i n g   Northern Rivers Business Magazine Autumn 2011 3   F D D i Ge nnaro, B  K Ma rte n s  a n d L L   M c In ty re    I ncre a s i n g  treatment integrity through negative reinforcement: Effects on teacher and student behavior School Psychology Review 34 220–231, 2005 4   D.A W ilde r, J. A t well an d B. Win e The effect s o f v a ryin g level s o f  treatment integrity on child compliance during treatment with a threestep prompting procedure Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis 39 369–373, 2006 5   M.K A r koosh, K.M. Derby D.P. Wacker, W Berg, T.F. McLaughlin and A. Barretto. “A descriptive evaluation of long-term treatment integrity Behavior Modification 31:880–895, 2007 6   F D D i G e nnar o  B  K M a rte n s K l e i n m a n n A E   A co m p aris on of performance feedback procedures on teachers' treatment implementation integrity and students' inappropri ate behavior in special education classrooms Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis 40:447–461, 2007 7  Collins English Di ctio nary Harper Collins Publis h e r s 2 003  8   P.J. Howard and J. M  Ho ward T h e Owner  s  Manual for Personality at  Work”. Austin, Texas: Bard Press, 2001 9   L.M Sauls m a n  and A.C., Page T h e f ivef actor m o del an d p e rs o n ality disorder empirical literature: A meta-analytic review". Clinical Psychology Review 23 \(8\: 1055–1085, 2004 1  M.R B a rrick, and M.K. Mount. "T h e B ig Five Per son ality Di m e ns ion s  and Job Performance: A Meta-Analysis". Personnel Psychology 44: 1 26, 1991 1  M.K. M o unt and M  R Barr ick  Fiv e rea s ons wh y the B ig Five  art ic le has been frequently cited". Personnel Psychology 51: 849–857, 1998 1 I.H  W ittenand and E., Frank Data M i nin g: Pr a c tical m a chine lear ning  tools and techniques”. Morgan Kaufmann: San Francisco, 2005   393 


on universe of discourse  IV. ASSOCIATION RULE MINING  Association rule mining is one of the important techniques in data mining [19] which aims to discover the associations and frequent patterns amongst set of items in a particular database [20, 21]. It has been successfully applied in various fields such as: market management [19], product purchasing logs of retail stores [20], website traffic logs [21] and classification 22]. Below we explain the association rule technique in more details Let D be database of different transaction records I= {I1, I2, I3, I4, Im} be a set of m distinct binary attribute values called items [19, 20].  Each transaction T?D is a set of items such that T ? I. Association rule is an implication in the form A=>B which means that whenever T contains A, then T also contains B with specified confidence [21, 22], where A, B ? I are sets of items called itemsets. Since the data base is large and users only concern about frequent interesting patterns, there are two measures used to capture the statistical strength of a pattern: support and confidence 19, 20]. Support is an indicator of rule frequency. The rule confidence is the probability that consequent B will follow antecedent A and is expressed as the percentage of transactions containing A and B to the overall number of transactions containing A. The predefined thresholds for interesting association rule are called minimal support and minimal confidence respectively [19, 20, 21 Most of association rule mining algorithms are not applicable to software engineering data because these data are often represented in numeric scale but the algorithms deal only with categorical \(nominal 20, 23]. In this paper we would like to extend the association rule technique to take of advantage of the numeric values by distributing them to intervals as discussed in the next section, and then represent each interval with nominal data. All extracted association rules should be filtered according to target stage. For 


250 example, if the target stage prediction is the design phase then all extracted rules that contain design phase as consequent only should be filtered  V. THE PROPOSED APPROACH  The proposed approach combines the concepts of Fuzzy set theory [25] and association rule mining [19 20]. The Fuzzy set theory [25] is used to represent the corresponding linguistic variables for each interval instead of representing them as crisp interval. Thus this should help us to derive the final prediction after determining the corresponding Fuzzy set for the target stage. Determining the corresponding Fuzzy set for the target stage is performed by using association rule which attempts to find confident rules between prior stage\(s described by 5 steps as explained below  Step1: define the universe of discourse U for each stage in historical dataset, then divide it into several equal intervals \(lengths Dmin Dmax discourse is determined. Consequentially, based on Dmin and Dmax we define the universe U as [Dmin-D1 Dmax+D2] where D1 and D2 are two proper positive numbers used to make the universe U more clear containing all possible values in the dataset. After that each U should be partitioned into a number of equal intervals where the number and length of intervals should be predefined by estimator. Assuming n is the number of intervals then the length of interval L is calculated as follows L n DDDD  1min2max ??+  \(1 Then each interval is defined as follows  niiLDDLiDDWi   2max1min \(2 For example, suppose the specification stage has the following boundary: \(Dmin=22 Dmax=162 


simplicity we choose D1=12 and D2=8, thus the universe of discourse for the specification stage is defined as U=[10 , 170]. This means that based on available historical data the effort records of specification stage is delimited between 10 to 170 man- months. Let U be divided into four equal intervals with equal length as following L= [ ] 40 4      with: W1 =[10, 50 W4 =[130, 170  Step 2: define a corresponding linguistic variable Fuzzy set discourse U. This step has been used intensively in Fuzzy time series. The number of Fuzzy sets must be related to the number of intervals. Let A1, A2,A3,,An be Fuzzy sets represent linguistic terms where A1 is defined as depicted in eq. 3    3  where  jA Wi? is the membership degree of interval jW in Fuzzy set iA n corresponds to the number of intervals Therefore the linguistic terms A1, A2 , A3 ,,An will be defined as follows 0,/0,/0......,/0,/0,/5.0,/1{ 1243211 nnn WWWWWWWA 0,/0,/0......,/0,/5.0,/1,/5.0{ 1243212 nnn WWWWWWWA   1,/5.0,/0...../0.,/0,/.0,/0{ 124321 nnnn WWWWWWWA Based on the previous example in step 1, the possible Fuzzy sets for the four intervals W1 , W2 ,W3 ,W4 should be defined as follows 0,0,5.0,1 43211 WWWW A 0,5.0,1,5.0 


43212 WWWW A 5.0,1,5.0,0 43213 WWWW A 1,5.0,0,0 43214 WWWW A  Step 3: determine the target stage and discover association rules between prior stage\(s stage. In this step we used predictive APRIORI algorithm [22] that is implemented in WEKA data mining tool [26]. The minimum support is set by 0.01 and minimum confidence is set by 0.8. These values have been carefully chosen to avoid too few rules that would occur if the confidence was very high In this paper we will replace the name of all stages with the following abbreviations. The number preceding the abbreviation represents the order of stage in software development process. \(1 planning stage. \(2 3 4 building stage. \(5 6 Effort of implementation stage 251 Step 4: filtering extracted rules. All generated rules are filtered to obtain interesting rules that contain specified target as consequent and all rules should respect stage order integrity. This means that all stages in antecedent parts should not precede target stage in consequent part. For example, if the target stage is the design phase: ED then all rules that contain this phase only as consequent will be considered for further processing and others are neglected. The following rules are accepted for further processing, the number after abbreviation denotes corresponding Fuzzy set interval EP1=>ED4 ES2 and EP3=>ED2 Conversely, the following rules are neglected because there have problems in either antecedent or 


consequent part EP1 and ES2=>ED1 & ET3: because ED1 should appear alone in consequent part ES1 and EI=>ED1: because EI cannot precede ED  Step 5: calculate the predicted output. Firstly defuzzify all expected outputs with regards to target stage 2,1        1 1 ni W WmW Adefuzz n j jA n j jjA i i i        4  where jWm is the centre value of expected interval of target stage in historical dataset. Secondly, the estimated effort is calculated by computing the weight average of defuzzification values. The weight here is confidence ratio of extracted rules as shown in Eq. 5 For example suppose we want to predict specification stage of a project. Consider prior stage is software plan phase and its effort value is located in 


the first interval \(EP1 following rules have been extracted EP1=>ES4 \(confidence= 0.932 EP1=>ES3 \(confidence= 0.843 EP1=>ES1 \(confidence= 0.78 Then corresponding Fuzzy sets that represent expected target stage based on previous rules should be defuzzfied. From this example we can observe that the input interval has many relations with target intervals i.e. EP1 has three significant relations with ES4, ES3 and ES2 in the specification phase. Therefore we need to take their impacts on the final estimate. The effort for specification phase stage is calculated as following      k i i k i ii confidencerule confidenceruleAdefuzz E 1 1   5 where k is the number of rules  15.000  1 5.0 0 0  43214    WmWmWmWm Adefuzz ES  


5.015.00  5.0 1 5.0 0  43213    WmWmWmWm Adefuzz ES  005.01  0 0 5.0 1  43211    WmWmWmWm Adefuzz ES  Assume 70 55 35 20 4321 ==== WmWmWmWm then 65 4 =ESAdefuzz , 75.53 3 =ESAdefuzz 25 1 =ESAdefuzz  By using equation 5 the predicted effort is  78.0843.0932.0  78.0 843.0 932.0 234    ESESES AdefuzzAdefuzzAdefuzzE monthsmanE ?= 08.49    VI. EVALUATION CRITERIA  Many evaluation criteria are introduced in software engineering literature, among them we selected three evaluation criteria are Bias, Mean Magnitude of relative errors \(MMRE relative errors \(MdMRE 6 


to check whether the proposed prediction model is biased and tends to under or over estimation. MMRE in equation \(7 in an individual estimate and should be less than 25 to be acceptable. Since the MMRE is sensitive to the individual prediction with large MRE we adopt median MRE \(MdMRE value of MRE. The acceptable target for MMRE and MdMRE is less or equal to25  i ii actual estimatedactualiBias 6    n i iBias n MMRE 1  1  \(7 252 iiBiasmedianMdMRE  8 VII. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION  The dataset used in empirical validation came from ISBSG [24]. The obtained dataset contains effort records for six phases are: plan effort \(EP specification effort \(ES ED effort \(EB ET effort \(EI processing we attempted to select the most representative data, therefore we ignored the projects records that contain missing values Determining the possible number of intervals in each stage is carried out based on the distribution of effort data in each stage as shown in Figures 1 to 6 There is no clear mechanism for how to determine the 


perfect number of intervals therefore we attempted to study density of data for each stage separately. The performed analysis resulted in different number of intervals between stages. The obtained number of intervals reflects the density and range of data in each stage as shown in Table I. For Association rule mining the minimum support is set by 0.01 and minimum confidence is set by 0.8. These values have been carefully chosen to avoid too few rules that would occur if the confidence was very high The theme of this paper is to address the following arising issue: can project manager relay on prior effort records to predict next stage effort? To answer this question, the proposed model has been evaluated using jack-knifing method. We used 34 projects with complete effort records. The complete procedure of experiment is described below 1. Project number i is removed from data set as test project \(i.e. for which the stage estimate is required 2. The proposed procedure applied on the remaining projects 3. Making prediction for the test project, and MRE and residuals of test project is recorded 4. Project i, which had been removed from the data set is added back Table II and Table III depict the results obtained by our proposed approach compared to exponential regression where target stage is regarded as dependent variable and all pervious stages as independent variables Table II we can observe that all outputs tend to be under estimation. Three out of five stages producing good estimate are specification, building and testing while design stage produced better results compared to implementation stage \(which produced the worst stage effort estimation in terms of MMRE related to that the ISBSG is scattered as result of collection from different worldwide companies. The effort records have complex structure in which there is no consistent structure for all effort records. Based on MdMRE we can observe that our approach in most of stages produced comparable estimation accuracy with maximum 30.2% in implementation stage 


 Table I.  Number of intervals Stage Interval No. Stage Interval No EP 7 ES 8 ED 10 EB 9 ET 8 EI 11  Table II.  Results using the proposed approach Stage Bias MMRE MdMRE ES -8.5% 27.0% 17.0 ED -33.1% 40.5% 13.7 EB -2.8% 9.3% 7.5 ET -11.6% 16.7% 7.23 EI -20% 91.0% 30.2  Table III.  Results using exponential regression Stage Bias MMRE MdMRE ES -24.3% 81.3% 49.7 ED -72.3% 120.4% 54.224 EB 0.7% 44.35% 37.6 ET -45.4% 81.1% 39.0 EI -179% 184% 104.0  Results shown in Table III revealed that most of predictions are under estimation which supports our approach findings. The best estimation accuracy was obtained in building stage, which also corroborates our findings that best estimation accuracy was in building stage. The negative values in Bias criterion show underestimation. It is acknowledged that MMRE is unbalanced in many validation circumstances and leads to overestimation more than underestimation. In our case, we found that MMRE leads to underestimation in most stages. This is may be related to the absence of systematic scheme between all prior effort records   253   Figure 1. Effort distribution of Planning stage 


Figure 2. Effort distribution of Specification stage Figure 3. Effort distribution of Design effort stage  Figure 4. Effort distribution of Building stage Figure 5. Effort distribution of Testing stage Figure 6. Effort distribution of Imp stage   Table IV. Statistical significance Stage sum rank Z-value p-Value ES 769 -4.31 <0.01 ED 713 -5.03 <0.01 EB 685 -5.4 <0.01 ET 595 -6.54 <0.01 EI 799 -3.93 <0.01  The comparison between our approach and exponential regression technique showed that there are considerable improvements in estimation accuracy on all phases of software development lifecycle. MMREs of our approach have been reduced by at least 35.05 and at most 93%. Biases have been reduced by at least 3.5% and at most 159%.We have to bear in mind that the length of interval plays important role in estimation accuracy, thus, when the universe of discourse is partitioned into several equal intervals, the distribution of data should be taken into account. Moreover, we should remove the extreme values because they affect interval partitioning, thus, estimation accuracy Figures 7 to 11 show comparison between proposed approach and exponential regression in each stage by using Boxplot. The Boxplot [17] offers a way to compare between estimation models based on their absolute residuals. The Boxplot is non-parametric statistics used to show the median as central tendency of distribution, interquartile range and the outliers of individual models [17]. The length of Boxplot from 


lower tail to upper tail shows the spread of the distribution. The length of box represents the interquartile range that contains 50% of observations The position of median inside the box and length of Boxplot indicate the skewness of distribution. A Boxplot with a small box and long tails represents a very peaked distribution while a Boxplot with long box represents a flatter distribution. The prominent and common characteristic among these figures is the spread of absolute residuals for our approach is less than spread of exponential regression which presents more accurate results. The larger interquartile of exponential regression indicates a high dispersion of the absolute residuals. The Boxplot revealed that the box length for our models is smaller than exponential regression which also indicates reduced variability of absolute residuals. The median of our model is smaller than median of exponential regression which revealed that at least half of the predictions of our model are more accurate than exponential regression 254  Figure 7. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the specification stage  Figure 8. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the design stage   Figure 9. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the building stage Figure 10. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the testing stage   The lower tails of our model is much smaller than upper tail which means the absolute residuals are skewed towards the smaller value Figure 11 illustrates the reason of why prediction of implementation stage in our approach produced the worst accuracy. The reason related to the existing of outlier. Although one project is considered as an outlier the MMRE is easily influenced with that project Based on the obtained results, we can observe that 


exponential regression gave bad accuracy. The reason may relate to the structure complexity of prior effort records. There is no correlation between all prior stages and target stage To ensure that the results obtained are not by chance we investigated the statistical significance of the proposed approach using Wilcoxon sum rank test for absolute residuals as shown in Table IV. In this test if the resulting p-value is small \(p<0.05 statistically significant difference can be accepted between the two samples median. The residuals obtained using the proposed approach were significantly different from those obtained by exponential regression Suggesting that, there is difference if the predications generated using the proposed approach or exponential regression and based on the accuracy comparison in Tables II and III we can safely conclude that our proposed method outperformed exponential regression for stage effort estimation Figure 11. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the implementation stage  VIII. CONCLUSIONS Some of software projects are failed due to the absence of re-estimation during software development which results in huge gap between initial plan and final outcome. Even with good estimate at first stage the project manager must keep update with project progress and should be able to re-estimate the project at any particular point of project in order to re-allocate the proper number of resources. The objective of this paper was to check whether the prior effort records can 255 be used to predict stage effort with reasonable accuracy or not. The obtained results revealed that using association rule and Fuzzy set theory lead to significant improvement in stage-effort estimation and give project manager an evolving picture about project progress. Comparing our approach with exponential regression showed that there is a considerable potential in estimation accuracy. As part of future plan, we 


intend to expand this work to involve some interesting features in each stage prediction and evaluate it on many datasets   REFERENCES  1] F. Ricardo, N. Ana, M. Paula, B. Gleidson, R. Fabiano ODE: Ontology-based software Development Environment, Proceedings of the IX Argentine Congress on Computer Science, pp. 1124-1135, 2003 2] E. Mendes, B. A. Kitchenham. Further comparison of cross-company and within-company effort estimation models for Web applications. In: Proc. 10th IEEE International Software Metrics Symposium, Chicago USA, pp.348-357, 2004 3] B. Boehm, R. Valerdi. Achievements and Challenges in Software Resource Estimation, Proceedings of ICSE 06 Shanghai, China, pp. 74-83,  2006 4] K. Molokken, M. Jorgensen. A review of software surveys on software effort estimation, Proceedings of International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering \(ISESE 2003 5] M. Jorgensen, K. Molokken-Ostvold. How large are software cost overruns? A review of the 1994 CHAOS report, Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48 issue 4. PP. 297-301, 2006 6] X. Huanga, D. Hob, J. Rena, L. F. Capretz. Improving the COCOMO model using a neuro-Fuzzy approach Applied Soft Computing, Vol.7, issue 1, pp. 29-40, 2007 7] L. Briand, T. Langley, I. Wieczorek. A replicated assessment and comparison of common software cost modeling techniques, Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on Software Engineering, 2000 8] S.-J Huang, N. H. Chiu. Optimization of analogy weights by genetic algorithm for software effort estimation Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48, issue 11 pp. 1034-1045, 2006 9] Z. Xu, T. M. Khoshgoftaar. Identification of Fuzzy models of software cost estimation, Fuzzy Sets and Systems, Vol. 145, issue 1, pp. 141-163, 2004 10] R. Pressman. Software Engineering: practitioner 


approaches, McGraw Hill, London, 2004 11] M. Boraso, C. Montangero, H. Sedhi. Software cost estimation: an experimental study of model performance Universita di Pisa, Italy, 1996 12] Y. Wang, Q. Song, J. Shen., 2007. Grey Learning Based Software Stage-Effort Estimation. International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, pp 1470-1475, 2007 13] S. G. MacDonell, M. J. Shepperd. Using prior-phase effort records for re-estimation during software projects Ninth International, Software Metrics Symposium, pp 73- 86, 2003 14] M .C Ohlsson, C. Wohlin. An Empirical Study of Effort Estimation during Project Execution, Sixth International Software Metrics Symposium \(METRICS'99 1999 15] N. H. Chiu,,S. J. Huang.  The adjusted analogy-based software effort estimation based on similarity distances Journal of Systems and Software, Vol. 80, issue 4, pp 628-640, 2007 16] P. Sentas, L. Angelis, I. Stamelos, G.  Bleris. Software productivity and effort prediction with ordinal regression Information and Software Technology, Vol. 47, issue 1 pp. 17-29, 2005 17] E. Mendes, N. Mosley. Comparing effort prediction models for Web design and authoring using boxplots Australian Computer Science Communications,  Vol. 23 Issue 1, pp. 125-133, 2001 18] E. Mendes, N. Mosley, I. Watson. A comparison of casebased reasoning approaches, Proceedings of the 11th international conference on World Wide Web, pp. 272280, 2002 19] Q. Zhao, S. S. Bhowmick. Association Rule Mining: A Survey  http://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/734613.html, 2003 20] S. Morisak, A. Monden, H. Tamada. An Extension of association rule mining for software engineering data repositories, Information Science Technical Report NAIST, 2006 21] Q. Song, M. Shepperd.  M. Cartwright, C. Mair. Software defect association mining and defect correction effort prediction, IEEE transaction on software engineering Vol. 32, No.2, pp. 69-82, 2006 


22] R. Agrawal, T. Amielinski, A. Swami. Mining association rule between sets of items in large databases Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207-216, 1993 23] M-J. Huang, Y-L. Tsou, S-C. Lee.  Integrating Fuzzy data mining and Fuzzy artificial neural networks for discovering implicit knowledge, J. Knowledge-Based Systems, Vol.19 \(6 24] ISBSG International Software Benchmarking standards Group, Data repository release 10, Site http://www.isbsg.org, 2007 25] L. Zadeh. Toward a theory of Fuzzy information granulation and its centrality in human reasoning and Fuzzy logic. J. Fuzzy sets and Systems 90, pp. 111-127 1997 26] I. H. Witten, E. Frank. Data Mining: Practical machine learning tools and techniques, 2nd Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, 2005   256 


encountering a related term, i.e. IC\(c e intuition behind the use of the negative likelihood is that the more probable a term to appear, the less information it conveys. All these features show that Jiangs measure tends to be more general and more appropriate for evaluating nontaxonomically related terms. Indeed, a high score of the relatedness measures suggests a strong relationship between terms Nevertheless, all relatedness measures have limitations because they assume that all the semantic content of a particular term is modeled by semantic links in WordNet Consequently, in many situations, truly related terms obtain a low scores even though their belongings to a certain category of tags, e.g., jargon tags Additionally, when measuring the quality of an automatically knowledge acquisition results, the typical measures used in Information Retrieval are Recall, Precision and F-Measure. However, computing Recall and F-Measure requires the availability of a Gold Standard. Hence, we will only compute the Precision which speci?es to which extent the non-taxonomic relationships is extracted correctly. In this case, the ratio between the correctly extracted relations i.e., their relatedness measures is greater than or equal to a minimum threshold, and the whole number of extracted ones is computed. Thus, we have Precision Total correctly selected entities Total selected entities 12 http://search.cpan.org/dist/WordNet-Similarity 13 A term refers to a tag subject or a tag object C. Evaluation of non-taxonomic relationships Only a percentage of the full set of non-taxonomic relationships \(89 is caused by the presence of non standard terms which are not contained in WordNet and, in consequence, cannot be evaluated using WordNet-based relatedness measures. Fig. 5 depicts the evaluation results of the extracted non-taxonomic relationships against their relatedness measures High relatedness score \(88 17% of the extracted relationships, as most of terms are strongly related with respect WordNet Null Scores were obtained for 5% of the extracted 


relationships. Analyzing this case in more detail, we have observed that the poor score is caused in many situations by the way in which Jiangs distance metric works. This latter completely depends on the distance between two terms based on the number of edges found on the path between them in WordNet. In consequence this measure returns a value that does not fully represent reality. For example, on the one hand, Jiangs distance metric returns a null value for the relationship between insurance and car, even though the ?rst is a commonly related to the second, i.e., car involved insurance Finally with a minimal Jiangs distance metric threshold, set to 46%, the computed precision of correctly extracted relationships candidates is equal to 68.8 An example of extracted non-taxonomic relationships is depicted in Table V where each relation describes the subject tag, e.g., tool, the predicate, e.g is being developed within, and the object tag, e.g mesh. Fig. 4 represent a fragment output of the extracted ontological structure where each concept de?nes a set of similar and synonym tags and labels, i.e., mentions has been, revealed, caused and is created with describe the predicates of the non-taxonomic relationships between terms Due to the limitations observed by the automatic evaluation procedure and the lack of gold standards containing non-taxonomic relationships, we have examined the extracted non-taxonomic relationships from a linguistic point 377 Top space      distance     quad great     groovy nifty caused address      addresses extension      quotation   reference  references extensions        referenz     source      refrence sources    rfrences    quotations research    search     searching searchs open-source     open_source 


opensource linux aim     design     designer      designers patern    project     patterns     projekte projects web+design    web_design webdesign internet       internetbs net          web network      networking networks      web discussion     news       password word      words community      communities is_created_with mentions revealed has_been Figure 4. A fragment output of the extracted ontological structure of view. This qualitative evaluation can bring some interesting insights about the kind of results one can expect Invalid relations are extracted: Even though a relation such as music cities skill is considered as correct one since tag subject, tag object and predicate are correctly extracted. From a semantic point of view, this relation has no meaning. Hence, a higher precision is expected Figure 5. Summary of non-taxonomic evaluation measure Table V EXAMPLES OF EXTRACTED NON TAXONOMIC RELATIONSHIPS Subject Predicate Object search has been reference reference mentions search tool is being developed within mesh security added encoding search revealed reference java provides library by performing the sense analysis on complete relations An ambiguity in the extracted predicates between terms is observed: Hence, same relations are redundant since they use a synonym predicates between terms, e.g java provides library and java yields library. Thus we expect that the redundancy removal within extracted relations will be of bene?t for the improvement of the 


obtained results VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK The extraction of non-taxonomic relationships from folksonomies is to the best of our knowledge is the least tackled task within ontology building from folksonomy. This is why there is a need of novel and general purpose approaches covering the full process of learning relationships. In this paper, we introduced a new approach called NONTAXFOLKS that starts by pre-processing tags aiming at getting a set of frequent tagsets corresponding to an agreed representation Then, they are used to retrieve related tags using external resources such as WordNet. Thanks to the particular structure of triadic concepts, it allows grouping semantically related tags by considering the semantic relatedness embodied in the different frequencies of co-occurences among users, resources and tags in the folksonomy. Thereafter we introduced an algorithm called NTREXTRACTION for extracting non-taxonomic relationships between pair of tags picked from the triadic concepts. In summary, our approach uses several well known techniques \(such as formal concept analysis or association rule discovering the social bookmaring environnement in order to propose a new way of extracting labeled non-taxonomic relationships between tags. Currently, we are investigating the following topic concerning the discovered predicates between two terms. Indeed, in order to avoid relationships redundancy and thus a redundancy in the builded ontology. One can try to classify them into prede?ned semantic classes, detect synonyms, inverses, etc. A standard classi?cation of verbs could be used for this purpose, adding additional information about the semantic content, e.g., senses, verb types, thematic roles, etc., of predicates relationships 378 REFERENCES 1] J. Pan, S. Taylor, and E. Thomas, Reducing ambiguity in tagging systems with folksonomy search expansion, in Proceedings of the 6th Annual European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC2009 2] V. S. M. Kavalec, A. Maedche, Discovery of lexical entries for non-taxonomic relations in ontology learning, in Proceedings of the SOFSEM 2004, LNCS, vol. 2932, 2004, pp 249256 


3] L. Specia and E. Motta, Integrating folksonomies with the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 4th European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC 2007 Innsbruck, Austria, vol. 4519, June 2007, pp. 624639 4] P. Mika, Ontologies are us: A uni?ed model of social networks and semantics, in Proceedings of the 4th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC2005 3729, Galway, Ireland, June 2005, pp. 522536 5] P. Schmitz, Inducing ontology from ?ickr tags, in Proceedings of the Workshop on Collaborative Tagging \(WWW 2006 Edinburgh, Scotland, May 2006 6] M. Zhou, S. Bao, X. Wu, and Y. Yu, An unsupervised model for exploring hierarchical semantics from social annotations, in Proceedings of the 6th International Semantic Web Conference and 2nd Asian Semantic Web Conference ISWC/ASWC2007 Korea, vol. 4825, November 2006, pp. 673686 7] C. Schmitz, A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, and G. Stumme, Mining association rules in folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 10th IFCS Conference \(IFCS 2006 2006, pp. 261270 8] A. Hotho, A. Maedche, S. Staab, and V. Zacharias, On knowledgeable unsupervised text mining, in Proceedings of Text Mining Workshop, Physica-Verlag, 2003, pp. 131152 9] A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, C. Schmitz, and G. Stumme, Information retrieval in folksonomies: Search and ranking, in The Semantic Web: Research and Applications, vol. 4011 Springer, 2006, pp. 411426 10] F. Lehmann and R. Wille, A triadic approach to formal concept analysis, in Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Conceptual Structures: Applications, Implementation and Theory. Springer-Verlag, 1995, pp. 3243 11] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G.Stumme Discovering shared conceptualizations in folksonomies Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web, vol. 6, pp. 3853, 2008 12] A. Mathes, Folksonomies - cooperative classi?cation and communication through shared metadata, Graduate School of Library and Information Science, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Tech. Rep. LIS590CMC, December 2004 13] H. Lin, J. Davis, and Y. Zhou, An integrated approach 


to extracting ontological structures from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 6th European Semantic Web Conference ESWC 2009 vol. 5554, 2009, pp. 654668 14] M. Szomszor, H. Alani, K. OHara, and N. Shadbolt, Semantic modelling of user interests based on cross-folksonomy, in Proceedings of the 7th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC 2008 15] G.Begelman, P. Keller, and F.Smadja, Automated tag clustering: Improving search and exploration in the tag space, in Proceedings of the the Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop WWW 2006 16] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G. Stumme TRIAS - an algorithm for mining iceberg tri-lattices, in Procedings of the 6th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, \(ICDM 2006 2006, pp. 907911 17] C. Borgelt, Ef?cient implementation of APRIORI and ECLAT, in FIMI, COEUR Workshop Proceedings, COEURWS.org, vol. 126, 2003 18] J. Tang, H. Leung, Q. Luo, D. Chen, and J. Gong, Towards ontology learning from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 21st international jont conference on Arti?cal intelligence IJCAI 2009 20892094 19] L. Ding, T. Finin, A. Joshi, R. Pan, R. Cost, Y. Peng P. Reddivari, V. Doshi, and J. Sachs, Swoogle: A search and metadata engine for the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, ACM Press, 2004, pp. 652659 20] A. Hliaoutakis, G. Varelas, E. Voutsakis, E. Petrakis, and E. E Milios, Information retrieval by semantic similarity, International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems IJSWIS 21] G. Pirro, M. Ruffolo, and D. Talia, Secco: On building semantic links in peer to peer networks, Journal on Data Semantics XII, LNCS 5480, pp. 136, 2009 22] C. Meilicke, H. Stuckenschmidt, and A. Tamilin, Repairing ontology mappings, in Proceedings of the International Conference AAAI 2007, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada 2007, pp. 14081413 23] S. Ravi and M. Rada, Unsupervised graph-based word sense 


disambiguation using measures of word semantic similarity in Proceedings of the International Conference ICSC 2007 Irvine, California, USA, 2007 24] H. G. A. Budanitsky, Semantic distance in wordnet: an experimental application oriented evaluation of ?ve measures in Proceedings of the International Conference NACCL 2001 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, 2007, pp. 2934 25] J. Jiang and D. Conrath, Semantic similarity based on corpus statistics and lexical taxonomy, in Proceedings of the International Conference ROCLING X, 1997 379 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


