  T HE D EPLOYMENT OF MML FOR D ATA A NALYTICS OVER THE C LOUD  Jonathan Tancer and Aparna S. Varde Department of Computer Science Montclair State University Montclair, NJ, USA tancerj1 | vardea\@montclair.edu  Abstract Adoption of electronic records streamlines how critical information is stored and analyzed. A cloud computing environment provides vast storage capacity and CPU processing power for archival and analytics in a cost-effective 
manner.  In this paper we present a study of deploying the medical markup language MML for storing and analyzing data using cloud services. In addition to emphasizing the advantages of the cloud, we provide a brief risk analysis of using cloud services in such a crucial domain. While we focus our discussion on the medical domain, similar arguments are applicable to other domains with sensitive information Keywords  Association Rules  Markup Languages, Risk Analysis, Scientific Data, Senstive Information I  
 I NTRODUCTION  Electronic health records \(EHRs\ provide a detailed storage of patients medical history for analytical purposes By digitizing medical records it is hoped to improve the quality of healthcare services by facilitating analytics while reducing costs.  For example, hospitals can retrieve patient data and discover useful knowledge from it without contacting primary care physicians, thus saving precious time. Furthermore, electronic storage also allows easy access to the data for medical research which has potential long term benefits such as finding cures for some diseases and enhancing treatments for others. A large scale information system in which healthcare providers can easily 
add and update patient records is thus highly valuable Though large data centers can house and process massive amounts of information, hospitals and private medical care providers may not yet be willing to spend their own capital for implementing EHR systems.  A cloud model offers payas-you-go services. This service model allows entities which either cannot justify or do not have the capital to build their own information technology infrastructures, the capacity of using EHR systems.  A monthly fee needs to be paid to the party offering these services While the cloud offers a cost advantage over building 
locally housed systems, it introduces new problems.  All the information must be transmitted from the health care facility to the data center.  Transmission of data, especially sensitive personal data, can introduce sev eral new problems related to issues such as privacy and security ICDM-11 Workshops, December 2011, Vancouver, Canada Copyright IEEE 2011 All transmissions must be encrypted to protect patients information from attackers.  Additionally, the information being sent to the data center must be small enough that someone does not have to wait more than a few seconds 
every time a patient record is created, viewed, or modified In order to achieve concise up-to-date records, the medical markup language, MM h a s be e n cr ea t e d  In our work we investigate the deployment of MML to store and analyze patient data worldwide in conjunction with cloud services. We explain the advantages and outline the risks involved. Along the way, we also present some open questions and concerns II  MML  USAGE XML-based markup languages are often designed for various domai  T h e s e  l a ngua ge s fo l l o w the sy nta x of  
XML and encompass the semantics of the domain. Examples include CML, the Chemical Markup Language [7  MathML, the Mathematical Markup Language [3 a n d MML, the Medical Markup Language [5  T h e s e pro vi de domain-specific standards for data exchange worldwide allowing the information to be directly published on the Web without requiring conversion from relational formats The medical markup language, MML, was developed in Japan in 1995 by a group of scientists. MML is a very diverse easy- to-learn Web coding language designed using the XML tag set. MML allows quick and easy distribution of 
medical data over the Web. Figure 1 illustrates the general layout of an MML document as available in the literature [5               Figure 1: MML Document Layout  LeveloneŽ, the outer most level of an MML document contains two sections: the clinical_document_header and the body.  The clinical_document_header holds information 
2011 11th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining Workshops 978-0-7695-4409-0/11 $26.00 © 2011 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICDMW.2011.166 188 


  about the document type, origination creation date healthcare provider information, basic patient information and the local header   Figure 2: MML Patient Code Snippet  MML can act as an intermediary between various EHR systems, thus serving as an Esperanto. An MML document is a container for medical data to be transferred from one health institution to another, even if both institutions implement different systems. Figure 2 contains the code segment for storing an individual patients information [5   T h i s i s  contained in the clinical_document_headerŽ of an MML document  In Figure 2, the patient tags record the patient type, the person \(id number and patient name\ the date of birth and administrative tags are set.  In this specific example, the patient is given a type of PATŽ for patient.  Then the person brackets are opened and the patient id number of 11111 and first and last name JohnŽ and SmithŽ is assigned along with a birth-date of 1990-01-01   Figure 3: MML Local Markup Code Snippet  Figure 3 contains a code snippet representing information about a patients visit.  This code would be contained under the local_markupŽ of an MML document within a content paragraph, section, and body.  The code reviews information about the visit, the patients symptoms, and treatment.  We can see that Figure 3 begins with a tag local_markup [5    This tag is the inner most level of the body section contained in an MML document.  Very specific information provided by the healthcare provider is stored here.  Specific instances of visits, symptoms and treatments are found here. The physicians notes are stored in mmlPc:FreeExpression The nature of MML makes it convenient for users to store data for worldwide access. Querying over this data is easily possible using languages such as XQuery. Data storage in MML also assists in the discovery of knowledge from the data which is in a semi-structured format. XML mining techniques such as clustering based on structure and content and frequent pattern mining for trees and graphs can be applied over this semi-structured data for knowledge discovery [11 A l s o  m e dic a l lit er atu r e s t or ed in on l i n e  tex t  repositories can be converted into a semi-structured format using MML. This would need some natural language processing followed by conversion using state-of-the-art approaches and could then serve as an additional source of information for XML-based knowledge discovery with various data mining methods [1   Figure 4: Example of Association Rule Mining  We now consider an example of applying the association rule mining technique using the classical Apriori algorithm over semi-structured MML data. This example illustrated in Figure 4 considers information in text sources of medical literature. In particular, it refers to publications on the subject of diabetes with documentation on specific cases. In this example, 80 cases of patients are found to have diabetic grandparents among a total of 90 cases considered in the whole set of text sources. Furthermore, 70 out of these 90 patients are themselves diagnosed with diabetes. Applying the Aprori algorithm over this data stored using semantic tags, we get a rule DiabeticGrandparent=yes 002  Diabetes=yes with a rule confidence of 60/80 = 75% and rule support of 60/90 = 67% using the given formulae.  This is indeed true in the domain of medicine that diabetes is likely to be passed on to the third generation, i.e., people can inherit it from their grandparents. Such analytical information would often be available in text sources of medical literature. Thus, the use of MML to store textual information in semi-structured formats facilitates rule derivation. The automated discovery of this knowledge can be useful in developing tools such as expert systems and intelligent tutors 
189 


  Having thus emphasized the use of MML for medical data analytics, it would be useful to take advantage of cloud services in conjunction with MML. We now take a close look at some of these cloud services, keeping in mind the angle of managing sensitive data III  CLOUD  SERVICES A. Types of Services It is well known to the data management and data mining communities that cloud computing providers offer several types of services to their clients.  The three major types of cloud services are infrastructure as a service \(IaaS\ platform as a service \(PaaS\ and software as a service \(SaaS The IaaS model allows a client to fully outsource their information technology infrastructure. A client outsources servers, software, and storage space eliminating the need for costly purchases of their own equipment The PaaS model benefits clients who need a quick and cost effective way to roll out their applications.  It eliminates the expense of purchasing hardware and the labor required to maintain that hardware The SaaS model simplifies and reduces the cost of maintaining a software application.  Because the software is stored in a centralized location in the cloud, it eliminates the need to install software on all machines that will need to use that software.  Clients may access the software through a Web interface rather than having an installed application Additionally the SaaS model makes various maintenance tasks such as upgrades, patches, and security fixes much simpler.  Instead of having to go over to each individual machine running an installed application for maintenance the desired maintenance task can be run once in the cloud With reference to our work, the most useful among these cloud services would be SaaS. This would allow users from multiple locations to store and analyze MML data online from locations all over the world without having to purchase and house the essential software such as XML editors and analytical tools. To some extent, PaaS would also be useful because individual parties would not have to purchase the required hardware B. Trends in Cloud Computing useful for MML Some of the existing research in the cloud computing area is interesting with respect to the use of MML for medical data storage and analytics worldwide. It could also be useful in other domains with similar needs In [9   th e au th o r s d e f i n e f u tu re p l atf orm r e qu i r em en ts  with respect to e-science. They emphasize that by the utilization of the cloud, meaningful scientific analysis which would have previously required many expensive machines can now be fully outsourced.  The alternative method they present for data analytics is a highly cost-effective approach that medical providers can use in conjunction with MML A system called Lithium is proposed by Wentzlaff et al 12 t o  of f e r v i r t u a l m ach in e s t o r ag e f o r th e cl ou d   T h is is  a  new type of storage system which will allow for high availability of very large amounts of data.  It includes fault tolerance to prevent data corruption.  With respect to our work, medical information stored in the cloud is sure to be a large amount of data, where such virtual storage could be very useful to share data worldwide for analytical purposes However, it is important to determine what can be kept on the virtual store. It may not be advisable to store highly sensitive data here because even though they deal with data corruption issues, they do not guarantee privacy. Thus, while sharing the patients MML records on the virtual store for analytics it may be useful to conceal any data that could lead to revealing their identity, e.g., SSN and date of birth With reference to our work, we can make rough estimates for the anticipated data loads for small, medium and large scale systems using MML.   A single populated MML file is about 10KB in size when first created.  As the patients medical history grows, and doctors add their notes the size of the file will grow. This includes only local markup which is text based.  It is worth noting that multimedia files such as X-Ray, CAT scan or MRI images and recorded voice notes may be referenced within the MML file, however the multimedia files are stored externally.  A basic formula can be used to determine file storage requirements.  Size = \(average MML document size average number of multimedia files per MML document average size of multimedia files\× number of patients Thus we claim that a small size medical practice with a couple hundred patients would require at first only require a few MB of storage to hold these newly created MML files However, a medium sized health institution holding 10,000 records would require 100MB of storage space while a large sized health organization in charge of hundreds of thousands of records would require storage worth even larger orders of magnitude to hold the MML files and their associated multimedia files Furthermore, we emphasize that a physician running a relatively small practice may be able to purchase a machine or even use existing equipment to create and store MML health records of their patients.  The cloud model would seem to benefit larger scale health facilities where costs would need to be minimized, and time to implement a system is urgent.  Additionally, accessibility of data for larger healthcare facilities is more important than that of a solo practitioner.  A larger facility may have doctors who work at multiple hospitals or may even own their own practice.  In this case only the cloud model could offer continuous access to patient records through a web interface regardless of the physicians locations A method called SkewReduce is presented in [6 f o r  skew-resistant parallel processing in the context of featureextracting scientific user-defined functions.  This paper discusses efficient algorithms for scientific data management in particular.  Since medical analytics involves dealing with huge amounts of data, it will certainly benefit from computationally efficient analytical algorithms. Such algorithms can be used to implement programs in any language that needs to store MML data and query it Yuan et al. [13 p r op os e a s t rat eg y f o r da ta pl ac em en t with reference to workflows in scientific clouds by adopting a k-means clustering-based approach. They group datasets in k data centers in the build-time phase of the workflow and 
190 


  dynamically adjust newly generated datasets to data centers by identifying dependencies in the run-time phase of the workflow. In [1 th e au th o r s  en h a n c e th ei r ea rl ie r a p p r oa ch  by retrieving deleted datasets and storing intermediate datasets using data dependency graphs for cost-effectiveness Both these approaches are applicable in the context of analyzing huge collections of MML data maintained by health care providers and insurance companies. They would be useful in clustering MML documents following the analogy of the approaches in these papers High Performance Computing \(HPC\lications are addressed in [4  Ga rg  et al T h ey  bu il d det ail e d  mathematical models for data center scheduling to develop energy-efficient solutions for HPC over the cloud. They incorporate the arrival rate of applications, carbon emission rate, electricity price, data transfer cost and other parameters in their model to conduct scheduling of HPC on the cloud in an environment-friendly manner. Medical applications are likely to involve high performance computing, and hence the mathematical models described here can be useful in tuning the concerned parameters to achieve energy efficiency and performance optimization while analyzing MML data Relevant to this area, we have investigated in our research that DryadLINQ [15  d e v e l o pe d by M i c r os of t  i s a  powerful HPC application programming language. The DryadLINQ software allows a programmer who is familiar with Microsofts .NET programming languages to easily develop for DryadLINQ [Microsofts large scale dataparallel computing language  without having the underlying understanding of how to program for distributed systems Language-integrated query, or LINQ, uses simple from whereŽ, and selectŽ clauses to query information stored in array, lists, SQL databases, or XML files.  DryadLINQ is specifically appropriate to our research because it may be used to query very large datasets over distributed system With respect to the cloud, DryadLINQ may be used in the Software as a Service, or SaaS cloud environment Apache Hadoop [16 is an o t h e r H P C s y s t em  w e are incorporating into our research efforts.  Hadoop is a very popular open-source HPC system which is used to process very large data sets across many machines.  Hadoop offers two specific technologies which is relevant to our research Hadooop Distributed Files System, or HDFS, keeps multiple copies of data chunks and which are distributed across many of the machines in the cluster.  This allows for more rapid processing and data reliability.  If a disk drive fails on a single machine, it is likely there is the same data on other machines in the cluster.  The availability and integrity of medical and other scientific data is of utmost importance and HDFS can be relied on to provide this.  Hadoop also offers its own version of MapReduce.  MapReduce is the framework on which applications that are capable of quickly processing large datasets are built upon.  These applications may be written in Java.  By utilizing efficient Hadoop MapReduce programs, the time required for mining large sets of medical data can be reduced.   Consequently, the cost of mining medical data sets can be reduced as well by making use of these systems and applications The issue of cost-modeling over the cloud has been addressed in works such as [10 b y  T r o ung et  a l   T h ey propose techniques to estimate, monitor and analyze the costs involved with running scientific applications on the cloud. They estimate the costs for service dependency and address typical scientific applications with respect to costeffectiveness. This is helpful to users of MML-based applications to determine whether it is worthwhile to use the cloud for their tasks, by specifically calculating the costs savings incurred the process Architecture and resource allocation policies are of interest to cloud computing researchers. In [1   th e au th o r s  define an architectural framework with the goal of making cloud computing energy-efficient. They also propose resource allocation and scheduling algorithms for energyefficiency keeping in mind Quality of Service \(QoS\eeds It is important to take into account such architectural issues in order to further enhance performance with respect to various QoS parameters in specific MML applications. This is in addition to using the software services provided by the cloud for optimization. This is useful for MML data storage and analysis, and also seems fairly risk-free C. Advantages of Cloud Services We have considered state-of-the-art developments in cloud computing which would be of interest in the context of medical analytics using MML. Cloud computing with its latest developments thus seems beneficial to MML users We present an example of Amazon cloud services here Amazon offers specific services on the cloud which could be used to conduct analysis of medical data.  Amazons Elastic Compute Cloud \(EC2  s e r v i c e i s co st e ffe c t i v e i n  t h e sense that there is no expensive server hardware to purchase on the clients end.  Data is uploaded to EC2, where the analysis is performed, and then the results can be downloaded.   Amazon offers High Performance Computing features as part of their service.  Specifically, it offers Amazon Elastic MapReduce which uses the previously mentioned Hadoop MapReduce HPC algorithm In figure 5, Amazons EC2 standard on-demand instance pricing structure can be found.  The prices are in terms of instance hours.  Note that each partially used hour is billed as a full hour  Size Linux/UNIX Windows Small 0.085 $0.12 Large 0.34 $0.48 Extra large 0.68 0.96 Figure 5: Amazon EC2 on-demand Instance Pricing Chart  Based on all the discussion presented with respect to cloud services so far, we now elaborate on a few benefits below 1. Cost savings MML users would certainly cut down on their costs by taking advantage of cloud services. They would not incur huge capital investments but would rather use a more costeffective pay-as-you-go approach. This is particularly significant when large amounts of MML data have to be shared for analytics in a research 
191 


  project. This could be useful for knowledge discovery among various medical professionals and also for computer scientists mining the medical data for developing software such as expert systems and intelligent tutors. For example, with reference to our rough estimates for anticipated data loads \(see Section III B\, this could incur cost savings of buying the additional hardware needed for storing and analyzing all the data in MML.  For example purchasing a $1,000 server to analyze MML data would not be cost effective.  Assuming our data analysis is a standard \(small - $0.085 per hour\ on demand instance, the same $1,000 would net over 11,000 hours of EC2 time.  Utilizing Amazons EC2 in conjunction with the HPC algorithms would also prove to be much more efficient in processing the data because the load would be distributed across many machines, not confined to a single expensive server. Also, 11,000 hours of analysis utilizing EC2 would prove to be much more productive than 11,000 hours of analysis on a single server  2. Energy-efficiency MML applications would be more efficient in terms of power consumption and energy usage, thus benefitting the users as well as the environment. This is especially helpful in analytical tools requiring high performance computing that can employ computationally efficient algorithms over the cloud and also take advantage of its architectural advancements.  A small sized institution which may only require one server to house and analyze medical data may only slightly benefit by the energy-efficiency the cloud has to offer.  A much larger institution which may require an entire cluster of machines to house and analyze medical data would benefit significantly more from an energy-efficiency standpoint.  Thus, by utilizing energy efficient HPC algorithms the cloud has to offer, the larger institution may stand to gain the most in terms of energy-efficiency  3. Globalization Since cloud service providers offer easy-to-use worldwide access, this is yet another step in the broad realm of globalization. This is helpful to professionals from medical fields in exchanging important information as well as collaborating on applications using MML. For example, XML clustering and frequent pattern mining applications based on the structure and content of the data could require a huge number of MML documents in distributed locations. Cloud services would be very helpful here, since documents stored on a given server in one location could easily be made available to all the collaborators without additional storage 4. Green Technologies The use of cloud computing in storing and analyzing MML data inspires further research in the area of green computing. Users would be particularly concerned about the impacts of their work in terms of greening the planet and would strive towards a good balance between optimizing their performance and achieving greennessŽ. They would thus be interested in work such as defining metrics for greenness with respect to targeted applications and conducting detailed studies on complexity while using MML in conjunction with cloud services. The outcome of such research would be useful in other domains as well IV  RISK  ANALYSIS While examining the risks involved in data analytics using MML over the cloud we need to stress on the fact that MML is aimed to be a lingua franca for medical data storage and furthermore that it can be used along with cloud services offering benefits in worldwide data exchange MML was not originally designed with cloud services in mind. We therefore consider the potential risks involved in deploying MML over the cloud, such as the use of data warehouses, privacy concerns, security aspects, legal issues and resistance to change. The arguments presented here are not unique to MML and other users can also draw analogies A. Whether to Use Data Warehouses The use of large data warehouses can prove to be helpful in storing huge amounts of MML data over the cloud Distributed data warehouses allow almost one hundred percent accessibility.  If one server crashes, another can pick up where the first one left off, without the end user ever knowing about it.  If a specific hard disk fails, a copy of the data can be found elsewhere It is important to determine whether private data warehouses should exist solely for the purpose of housing MML records. It seems too expensive to build and run data centers just for this purpose.  It may prove to be cheaper to outsource the cloud services to companies such as Google Microsoft, Yahoo, or Amazon. Current state-of-the-art technologies allow speeding up the transition of cloud adoption for digital medical records. However, let us now examine the risk associated with this cloud adoption With reference to section IV B, we presented a formula for roughly determining the required storage space for MML files.  Size = \(average MML document size + average number of multimedia files per MML document × average size of multimedia files\ × number of patients.  Medium and larger sized institutions making use of MML would clearly require a much larger amount of storage space than that of much smaller institutions.  The risk of storing this information in shared commercial data centers would clearly rise for larger institutions.  Storing tens of thousands of patients records could potentially consume terabytes of storage space, which likely means this information would distributes across several physical machines A private \(non-government entity\ompany would want to get the most out of their servers to reduce their own costs Consider this with respect to MML data from two separate clients which may be stored physically on the hard disks Virtually, the software and the data would be separate, but the data may be physically placed on the same hard drive Thus, if a software bug or glitch is exposed, it could potentially lead to a leak of personal sensitive healthcare 
192 


  information stored using MML.  This is a serious issue and is therefore identified as a potential risk  B. Privacy Concerns Many questions can be raised regarding privacy with respect to MML data storage and analytics.  For example who will set privacy standards and industry best practices How much and what information should a health care provider have access too?  Who will store the data MML data will need to be protected from outsider unauthorized access. This will require cloud providers to run secure cloud services both physically and virtually.  If an online interface exists where patients can view their own information from their home computer, then an important question is Who should have access to what data?Ž  Patients should in theory be able to view their own medical records but should not have access to anyone elses by default Parents may be granted access to their childrens medical records till they are no longer dependent on their parents The disabled and the elderly may grant access to others if they are unable to view their own records Moreover, should any doctor be able to look up anyones digital medical information even if they are not their patient Suppose a doctor looked up the medical information of a fortune 500 company CEO and saw they had a lethal disease unbeknownst to the public, and based on that information performed a financial transaction with inside knowledge Who would determine exactly which patients records a doctor should have access to? When knowledge discovery over medical data is important from a research perspective such issues are very prominent. Likewise, there are many concerns over privacy.  It will be quite interesting to see how all these concerns will be addressed over the coming years with an increasing number of MML users and EHR systems C. Security Aspects Security is of the utmost importance when dealing with confidential medical information and thus is an issue in MML data analytics over the cloud. There should be both physical and virtual protection for the precious data. The data must be resistant to natural disaster and intruders. If there is a power outage, it is important to know whether there is a backup generator to make sure all systems stay online to avoid data corruption.  Another imporant issue is whether the data that is stored at a specific location is duplicated at another physical location in the event there is flooding or a building collapse Data is also vulnerable from a software standpoint Servers that are connected to the outside Internet must be behind firewalls to prevent virtual intruders from gaining unauthorized access.  Users who have authorized access should be limited to only their own level of access.  For example, a patient and a doctor using MML may both have access to the system.  However, a doctor should be able to view the records of all their patients, while a patient should only have access to their own record If cloud services for the storage of MML data are contracted to third party companies such as Google Amazon, Yahoo or Microsoft, additional levels of software security must be present. These companies sell their services to the public and could potentially have multiple clients data physically stored on the same machine.  The data in theory is separated by the use of virtual servers and software, however all possible bugs must be uncovered to rule out any chance of unauthorized access to MML data A small sized institution, for example a single private practitioner, which may only need to keep records of several hundred patients would require less storage space and also have fewer users, thus being less of a target for unauthorized access compared to a larger institution.  Several gigabytes of information would probably be all that is required to store all of the patient information, whereas for a larger institution several terabytes may be required A larger sized institution with hundreds of users would require additional layers of security to protect data which would likely be spread across multiple machines in the cloud.  Additionally, because there is simply a larger amount of information, it is likely to be a greater target for unauthorized access.  However, outside threats are not the only concern to a larger institution.  Because there are many more end users handling the data, a permission system must exist.  This would ensure that only relevant care providers have access to only their own patients data D. Legal Issues There are several legal questions which will be presented regarding cloud computing and MML data.  Who will ultimately be responsible for the data?  If a data breach is detected who is legally held responsible, and who is responsible for regulating and auditing the system to prevent possible future breaches? Such issues are very important to address when multiple parties are involved. We need to deal with patients and their families, health care providers that may be individuals or hospitals, insurance companies and in some cases even universities that are affiliated with hospitals in order to train medical staff It seems logical that a larger institution would require a greater attention to legal issues.  With more parties involved and also with more sensitive information at stake there is a greater liability All these issues become even more prominent when we are dealing with MML data on a global level. This is because different countries have varying laws and ethics. The rules and regulations in the USA for example may be different from those in Japan where MML was developed. It is thus important to answer the questions that arise with respect to legal issues. It is also useful to document these for future reference in legal cases E. Resistance to Change Mankind in general is resistant to change of any nature This will be a huge hurdle in the adoption of digitizing health records using MML within a cloud environment 
193 


  Physicians are accustomed to the way they run and operate their practices.  The change over phase will likely be much more difficult for smaller health care facilities Training doctors and other medical professionals to use a new system is not an easy task, even though these are highly educated individuals.  It may take months or even years and cost the medical practice a considerable amount of money Doctors may need to scale back their office hours during the transition phase to allow themselves and their office staff to adjust to new systems Patients also may be used to the traditional paper-andpen medium in storing their own medical records. Moreover several patients may not even be well-educated to get used to computerized systems, let alone migrating to MML over the cloud. This is a severe concern and is even more prominent in view of the other risks outlined so far V  DISCUSSION A. Real World Scenario There are companies that have already been creating and testing digital medical record systems over the cloud.  The Scottish cloud computing provider, Flexiant, announced on June 20 th 2011 that they will be providing their cloud computing platform as part of a research project that will aim to give patients more control over their own digital medical records  Flexiant states that their pi oneer i ng cl o ud pl at f o r m  Extility, will be the first large scale deployment of the cloud in e-health In their system, the patient will control who has access to their digital medical records.  Additionally, as part of their research they plan to solve many of the problems with existing electronic patient record systems They hope to aid in the creation of standards within digital medical records system to allow for more compatibility between different systems This seems like an excellent start and makes a very strong case for achieving even better performance with MML over the cloud. The use of MML would aid in standardization and globalization, while also facilitating information retrieval using XQuery and knowledge discovery using XML mining techniques B. Other Domains The arguments we have made here could be considered valid for various other domains with sensitive information A few examples of such domains include but are not limited to aerospace, life sciences, nanotechnology, environmental studies and biomedical engineering. Much of the information in these domains may be of a critical nature and there are huge concerns regarding security, privacy, legal issues and other factors Whether or not to use cloud services here may depend largely on the nature of the targeted applications. For example, a biological experi ment may involve human subjects and generate data of such a private nature that sharing it over the cloud may pose serious concerns. On the other hand, environmental scientists may consider greening the planet a huge priority and if they have applications where privacy is not a big issue, cloud services may seem to be the best solution C. Challenges Some of the challenges in this effort leading to further work include   Procuring large amounts of real patient information taking into account privacy issues in using MML over the cloud   Running further mining techniques other than association rules  with more real data, e.g., using MML along with XML clustering techniques and investigating how these can benefit from cloud services   Conducting knowledge discovery with respect to specifically targeted applications, e.g., using MML and cloud services to develop electronic health records \(EHR\or applying the results to preventive care   Building an easy-to-use tool and graphical user interface to query MML files that would address the issue of resistance to change   Further application of the High Performance Computing algorithms such as Dryad-LINQ and Hadoop in MML and cloud computing studies  VI  CONCLUSIONS We have addressed the deployment of an XML-based domain-specific standard for data storage and analysis over the cloud. We have considered factors such as cost savings and energy efficiency while outlining the advantages of cloud services. We have also overviewed the risks associated with this process taking into account aspects such as security privacy and legal issues A substantial amount of future work in this initiative would emerge from addressing the challenges outlined above. In addition, some more future issues would involve defining metrics for greenness and efficiency; assessing specific risks with detailed calculations; comparing the relational and XML models for data storage over the cloud considering complexity among other factors; and conducting exhaustive user surveys in targeted applications   VII  ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work is supported by a grant from Roche and Merck pharmaceuticals given to Montclair State University for their Science Honors Innovations Program. We thank Dr Phil Yecko from the Mathematics Department and Dr Robert Prezant, Dean of the College of Science and Mathematics for their continued support    
194 


  R EFERENCES  1  B e lo gla z o v A   A b a w a j y J  a n d B uyya  R E n e r g y aware resource allocation heuristics for efficient management of data centers for Cloud computing. In Future Generation Computer Systems, Article In Press \(2010 doi:10.1016/j.future.2011.04.017  lig h   A  Fle x i a n t P r ov idin g  Clou d P l at f o r m  f o r EHealth Pilot. Flexiant Cloud Computing Services, Cloud Software and Cloud Hosting Provider and Business Hosting Reseller UK | Utility Computing Services. \(June 2011 http://www.flexiant.com/2011/06/flexiant-providingcloud-platform-for-e-health-pilot  a rlis le, D., Ion P Min e r, R Poppelier, N  Mathematical Markup Language \(MathML\., World Wide Web Consortium, 2001  S., Yeo, C A n a ndas iv a m  A  an d Buy y a  R   Environment-conscious scheduling of HPC applications on distributed Cloud-oriented data centers. In Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing 71:732-749 \(2011  o, J A r ak i, K., T a n a k a K., Sato, J Su zu k i M Takada, A., Suzuki, T., Nakashima, Y., Yoshihara, H.: The Latest MML \(Medical Markup Language\L based Standard for Medical Data Exchange / Storage. In Journal of Medical Systems 27\(4\357…366 \(2003  w on Y., Balazins k a  M., Ho w e B. an d R o lia, J  Skew-resistant parallel processing of feature-extracting scientific user-defined functions. In Proceedings of the 1st ACM symposium on Cloud computing \(SoCC '10\pp. 7586 \(June 2010  rray R us t, P  an d Rzepa, H.: C h e m ical Marku p Language CML, In World Wide Web Journal, pp. 135-147 1997  a qu ette, S., J aeg er, P W ilson   S.: Iden ti fy ing  th e  security risks associated with governmental use of cloud computing. In Government Information Quarterly, 27: 245253 \(2010  a m a k r i s hn a n L J acks on, K., C a n o n   S., Ch olia, S. an d  Shalf. J.: Defining future platform requirements for eScience clouds. In Proceedings of the 1st ACM symposium on Cloud computing \(SoCC '10\p. 101-106 \(June 2010   T r u o n g  H. an d Du s t dar., S  C o m pos abl e cos t  estimation and monitoring for computational applications in cloud computing environments. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Computational Science ICCS10\pp. 2175-2184 \(2010  Varde, A Su ch an e k F Nay a k R  an d Sen e llart, P    Knowledge Discovery over the Deep Web, Semantic Web and XML, In Proceedings of the 14 th International Conference of Database Systems for Advanced Applications DASFAA '10\784 -788 \(April 2010  tzlaf f  D Gru e n w ald, III, C Beckm a n n   N Modzelewski, K., Belay, A., Youseff, L., Miller, J. and Agarwal. A.: An operating system for multicore and clouds mechanisms and implementation. In Proceedings of the 1st ACM Symposium on Cloud computing \(SoCC '10 14 \(June 2010  an D., Yan g  Y., Liu X. an d C h e n J  A data placement strategy in scientific cloud workflows. In Future Generation Computer Systems 26:1200-1214 \(2010  Yu an D., Yan g  Y., L i u  X. an d C h en J  On d e m a n d minimum cost benchmarking for intermediate dataset storage in scientific cloud workflow systems. In Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing 71:316-332 \(2011  ttp://research  m icrosoft.com en-us/projects/dryadlinq  ttp://h adoop.apach e.org   ttp://a w s a m azo n  co m  ec 2/pricin g     
195 


separate steps Step 1: minimum support is applied to find all frequent itemsets in a database Step 2: these frequent itemsets and the minimum confidence constraint are used to form rules 2 In 1994, Agrawal with other scholars worked out Apriori algorithm. The core principle is that the subsets of a frequent itemset are still frequent itemsets and the supersets of an unfrequent itemset are still unfrequent. Moreover, Apriori is a kind of iterative algorithm which is based on a two-stage mining thought for frequent itemsets. In detail, Apriori uses a bottom up" approach, where frequent subsets are extended one item at a time \(a step known as candidate generation groups of candidates are tested against the data. From L1 to Lk the algorithm terminates when no further successful extensions are found. But one attention of Apriori is that when searching for frequent subset Lk from Lk-1, connection and pruning will be done in the process. And finally association rules will result from the frequent itemsets[12 3 With software Weka3.5.8, some association rules between three information techniques \(call centre, SMS and network platform under the condition of probability=0.5, confidence=0.4 Therefore, some strong association rules with high confidence have been listed typically in Table.2 TABLE II. MINING RESULTS OF ASSOCIATION RULES Probability Confidence Association rules Call center technique 0.500 0.506 Job = farmer, family communication channels = middle ,family income middle ?call center = yes 0.500 0.524 Job = farmer, family communication cost = middle ?call center = yes 0.667 0.542 Job = farmer, family income = middle call center = yes 0.800 0.542 Family income = middle, family communication cost = middle ? call center = yes 1.000 0.572 Family income = middle, family 


communication channels = middle call center = yes Network technique 1.000 0.415 Age = young, public communication channels = wide ?network = yes 1.000 0.432 Job = planting, breeding and selling production, family income=high network = yes 0.813 0.443 Family income = high. Age = young network = yes Short message service SMS 1.000 0.481 Age = young, education = high? SMS yes 0.667 0.445 Age = young, family communication cost = middle ? SMS = yes 0.625 0.481 Education= high, family communication cost = middle ? SMS = yes 0.600 0.434 Age = young, education = high, family income = high ? SMS = yes 0.545 0.424 Education = high, family income high, family communication cost middle ? SMS = yes a technique while job=farmer, family communication channels middle, family communication cost = middle and family income =middle. The association rules reflect weak relevance between adoption and farmers age and education. And its adoption is mainly because of the easy operation. However farmers are still afraid of getting fake information b technique while age = young, job = planting, breeding and selling production, family income = high and public communication channels = wide. The association rules reflect strong relevance between adoption and farmers job, age and family income. And its adoption is mainly because of the easy operation and its timeliness. However, this technique costs much c 


while age=young, education=high, family communication cost=middle and family income=high. The association rules reflect strong relevance between adoption and farmers age and education. And its adoption is mainly because of the easy operation and its timeliness. However, farmers are still worried about the attitude of neighbors around to their behavior 4.CONCLUSION AND SUGGESTION From the mining results, we bring forward following conclusions A. Build various communication channels and provide differentiation information technology Farmers who have few communication channels dont want to adopt new techniques because of their limited family economic ability. We suggest government should try to reduce the risk and cost of technique adoption, promote various communication channels with different charging standards or provide some benefits of different degrees B.  Intensify farmers education and improve farmers certification of techniques Government should undertake some temporary training courses to instruct farmers some new information technologies for rural areas and let farmers be acquaint with these techniques. In this way, first farmers certification and then the information technology adoption rate will be improved C. Reduce technique cost and improve service quality It will do well in the technique promotion when the technique charging is lower and techniques are more various Moreover, considering that the service quality will influence farmers technology adoption intention and behavior information service institutions should try to perfect the quality through better satisfying farmers information demands and more reducing service cost. In this way, farmers information technology adoption will be promoted ACKNOWLEDGMENT The paper is sponsored by Beijing forestry university Scientific and Technological Innovation Project BLRW200922 REFERENCES 1] Artesyn technologies: Ministry of Industry and Information Technology Phone Covered 99.8% of Administrative Villages While Broadband Covered 96% of Villages and Towns. 3      December  2009. 20 June 


2010 www.//tech.qq.com/a/20091203/000001.htm>.\(In Chinese 2] YuLiangzhietal. Establishing a Rural Information Service System for New Farmers: a Case Study in Tianjin. Journal of Library Science of China, 2007, 33\(6 In Chinese 3] Davis F. D. Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of Use, and User Acceptance of Information Technology. MIS Quarterly, 1989, 13\(3 319-340 4] Fishbein, M., Ajzen, I. Belief, Attitude, Intention and Behavior: An Introduction to Theory and Research. Reading. MA: Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 1975 5] Ajzen, I. From Intentions to Actions? A theory of Planned Behavior in J. Kuhl and J. Bechmann\(Eds Behavior, Springer, Heidelberg, 1985, pp.11-39 6] Rogers, Everett. Diffusion of Innovations. Fourth edition. New York NY: The Free Press, 1995 7] FangSonghai, KongXiangzhi. Influence of Farm Households Endowments on Their Adoption of Production Methods in the Protected Land: Cases in Shaanxi, Sichuan and Ningxia. Journal of Agrotechnical Economics, 2005,\(3 In Chinese 8] ZhaoJing. A Study on Farmers Adoption of Rice Precise Quantitative Fertilization Technique in Jiangsu.Yangzhou: YangZhou University,2009. \(In Chinese 9] ZhangXin, LiuWeilong, WangHonghai. A Study on Information Technology Adoption from the view of capacity and intention Conference of China Branch of Information System Association 2006:145-146 10] Cohen, Wesley M., Levinthal, Daniel A. Absorptive Capacity: A New Perspective On Learning And Innovation, Administrative Science Quarterly, 1990, 35\(1 11] Agrawal, R., Imielinski T., Swami A. Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases. Proceedings of 1993 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data Washington, DC: ACM Press, 1993, pp. 207-216 12] Wikipedia: Apriori algorithm.  17 June 2010.  20 June 2010 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apriori_algorithm>.\(In Chinese 


found in this experiment retain F-scores lower than those in Table 1 This outcome seems to stem from the increased heterogeneity of the individuals in the same class \(i.e., geographical region KLMNOPQRSTTU  V9 suggests that rs256871 SNP has some relation with Asian populations. Our literature survey discovered an association between them such that rs256871 SNP is part of SEPT8 gene, and, in turn the SEPT8 gene is known to be accountable for tuberculosis among Asians [12 Nonetheless, most of the rules found in this study were difficult to interpret, because, out of more than 660,000 SNPs used in the study, very small numbers of such SNPs had been subject to research for  3 The Allele Frequency Database, ALFRED, http://alfred med.yale.edu/alfred/mvograph.asp?siteuid=SI218008T 4 The Allele Frequency Database, ALFRED, http://alfred med.yale.edu/alfred/mvograph.asp?siteuid=SI218014Q 322 determining the relations with particular traits such as population and geographical region. We expect that future biological studies would address this issue  Rules Region [F-score rs155353[mm], rs155355[mm rs236397[mm America [0.50  rs155353[mm], rs236397[mm rs277479[mm America [0.42  rs155355[mm], rs236397[mm rs277479[mm America [0.42  rs236397[mm], rs192841[mm] America [0.42 rs250413[mm], rs236397[mm] America [0.40 rs32218[mm], rs6792[mm] Oceania [0.71 rs32218[mm], rs27333[mm] Oceania [0.45 rs261844[mm] Oceania [0.37 


rs9655[mm] Asia [0.49 rs246760[mm] Asia [0.48 rs256871[mm] Asia [0.43 rs274932[mm] Subsaharian_Africa [0.43 rs247364[mm] Subsaharian_Africa [0.42 rs9655[mm] Subsaharian_Africa [0.23 Table 2.  Rules extracted from the third experiment where the associations between SNP genotypes and geographical regions are identified The M and m refer to major and minor allele at corresponding locus, respectively  6. Conclusion  We demonstrated that the well-refined methods such as TF-IDF term weighting and class association rule mining are applicable to the analysis of SNP genotype data. The proposed method first reduces the dimension of SNP data by selecting only the SNP genotypes with highest TF-IDF scores. It then mines the rules associating SNP sets and the traits using only the selected SNP genotypes The proposed approach is independent of trait types and, thus, is readily applicable to all type of traits without any modification. For example, in consideration of vulnerability to various diseases and responsiveness to diverse drugs, their relations with multiple genotype sets are analyzable. In our future work, we plan to explore various combinations of dimensionality reduction techniques and prediction models for the two phases of our analysis framework We also plan to evaluate some of the significant rules further through wet-lab tests  7. References  1] Chuan-Kang Ting, Wei-Ting Lin and Yao-Ting Huang Multi-objective tag SNPs selection using evolutionary algorithms," Bioinformatics, vol. 26, pp. 1446-1452, Jun 1 2010  2] Yang Liu, Mark Li, Yiu M. Cheung, Pak C. Sham and 


Michael K. Ng, "SKM-SNP: SNP markers detection method," Journal of Biomedical Informatics, vol. 43, pp 233-239, 2010  3] G. Salton and M. J. McGill, "Introduction to modern information retrieval," Introduction to modern information retrieval, McGraw-Hill, 1983  4] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases," 1994, pp. 487-499  5] Marylyn D. Ritchie, Lance W. Hahn, Nady Roodi, L Renee Bailey, William D. Dupont, Fritz F. Parl and Jason H Moore, "Multifactor-dimensionality reduction reveals highorder interactions among estrogen-metabolism genes in sporadic breast cancer," American Journal of Human Genetics, vol. 69, pp. 138-147, Jul 2001  6] Yu Zhang and Jun S Liu, "Bayesian inference of epistatic interactions in case-control studies," Nature Genetics, vol 39, pp. 1167-1173, Sep 2007  7] Pritam Chanda, Aidong Zhang, Lara Sucheston and Murali Ramanathan, "Information Theoretic Methods for Detecting Multiple Loci Associated with Complex Disease 8th International Workshop on Data Mining in Bioinformatics, BIOKDD 2008, Aug 24, 2008  8] Xiang Chen, Ching-Ti Liu, Meizhuo Zhang, and Heping Zhang, "A forest-based approach to identifying gene and gene-gene interactions," American Journal of Epidemiology vol. 167, pp. S96-S96, Jun 1 2008  9] Xiang Wan, Can Yang, Qiang Yang, Hong Xue, Nelson LS Tang and Weichuan Yu, "MegaSNPHunter: A learning approach to detect disease predisposition SNPs and high level interactions in genome wide association study," BMC bioinformatics, vol. 10, 2009  10] Xiang Wan, Can Yang, Qiang Yang, Hong Xue, Nelson L.S. Tang and Weichuan Yu, "Predictive rule inference for epistatic interaction detection in genome-wide association 


studies," Bioinformatics, vol. 26, pp. 30-37, Jan 1 2010  11] Noah A. Rosenberg, Jonathan K. Pritchard, James L Weber, Howard M. Cann, Kenneth K. Kidd, Lev A Zhivotovsky, Marcus W. Feldman, "Genetic structure of human populations," Science, vol. 298, pp. 2381-5, Dec 20 2002  12] C Ridruechai, S Mahasirimongkol, J Phromjai, H Yanai N Nishida, I Matsushita, J Ohashi, N Yamada, S Moolphate S Summanapan, C Chuchottaworn, W Manosuthi, P Kantipong, S Kanitvittaya, P Sawanpanyalert, N Keicho, S Khusmith and K Tokunaga, "Association analysis of susceptibility candidate region on chromosome 5q31 for tuberculosis," Genes and Immunity, 2010 323 


REFERENCES 1] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases, in SIGMOD 1993 2] C. Alexander, Market Models: A Guide to Financial Data Analysis. John Wiley & Sons, 2001 3] W. Kuo, T.-K. Jensen, A. Butte, L. Ohno-Machado and I. Kohane, Analysis of matched mrna measurements from two different microarray technologies Bioinformatics, vol. 18, p. 405C412, 2002 4] H. Xiong, X. He, C. Ding, Y. Zhang, V. Kumar, and S. Holbrook, Identi?cation of functional modules in protein complexes via hyperclique pattern discovery in PSB, 2005 5] J. Han, H. Cheng, D. Xin, and X. Yan, Frequent pattern mining: Current status and future directions DMKD, vol. 15, no. 1, pp. 5586, 2007 6] P.-N. Tan, M. Steinbach, and V. Kumar, Introduction to Data Mining. Addison-Wesley, 2005 7] S. Brin, R. Motwani, and C. Silverstein, Beyond market basket: generalizing association rules to correlations, in SIGMOD 1997, Tucson, AZ, 1997, pp 265276 8] E. Omiecinski, Alternative interestmeasures formining associations, TKDE, vol. 15, pp. 5769, 2003 9] H. Xiong, S. Shekhar, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar Exploiting a support-based upper bound of pearsons correlation coef?cient for ef?ciently identifying strongly correlated pairs, in KDD 2004, 2004, pp 334343 10] I. Ilyas, V. Markl, P. Haas, P. Brown, and A. Aboulnaga, Cords: Automatic discovery of correlations and soft functional dependencies, in SIGMOD 2004 2004, pp. 647658 11] J. Zhang and J. Feigenbaum, Finding highly correlated pairs ef?ciently with powerful pruning, in CIKM 2006, 2006, pp. 152161 12] H. Xiong, W. Zhou, M. Brodie, and S. Ma, Top-k correlation computation, JOC, vol. 20, no. 4, pp 539552, 2008 13] S. Zhu, J. Wu, and G. Xia, Top-k cosine similarity interesting pairs search, in 


http://datamining.buaa.edu.cn/TopKCos.pdf 14] M. Zaki, Scalable algorithms for association mining, TKDE, vol. 12, pp. 372390, 2000 


enhance item-based collaborative filtering, in 2nd IASTED International Conference on Information and Knowledge Sharing, Scottsdale, Arizona, 2003 476 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 


Basi Association Rles Basi c  Association R u les Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of events Ol dib t f ilt t O n l y d escr ib e se t s o f s i mu lt aneous even t s Cannot describe patterns that iterate over time e g  itemset a  0  b  0  g    Eg If you sense higher data rates on the downlink than normal AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 20 


Enhanced Inte r transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Extension of association rules Conditional relationships at multiple different time steps e.g itemset a\(0 0 1 2 You sense Higher data rate than normal AND You see New Route g enerated AND 1 minute a g o you detected checksum gg error packets AND 2 minutes ago your encountered wrong checksum   Implies High Chance of Intrusion Enhanced Rules and Confidence Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 21 


Complex Spatio temporal Association Complex Spatio temporal Association Rules Further extension of inter transaction association rules Describe event durations e.g itemset a\(0,X j,Y k,Z Eg  You sense high data rates for X seconds AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y seconds AND checksum error packets received k minutes ago for Z seconds High Chance of Intrusion With highest confidence level in association rules  association rules  Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 22 


DMITAR Al ith ARD DMITAR Al gor ith m  ARD Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Aiti Miig bd IDS A ssoc i a ti ve Mi n i n g b ase d IDS  Introduction to data mining Association rule in data mining DMITAR Algorithm  ARD New research Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 23 


DMITAR Algorithm DMITAR Difference Matrix Based Inter Transaction Association Rule Miner developed in DMRL Uses vertical data format Differences of the transaction IDs are used to generate extended itemsets Windowless mechanism Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 24 


Deep into the Mechanism The DMITAR algorithm is based on lhilii comp l ex mat h emat i ca l assoc i at i ve formulation and proofs Four major parts Four major parts Frequent 1 itemset generation Frequent 2 itemset generation Frequent k itemset generation k>2 Spatio temporal rule formation Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 25 


DMITAR, Datasets Used Stock Data Stock Data Daily stock information provided by Yahoo finance Wth Dt W ea th er D a t a Provided by the US Department of Commerce and National Climactic Data Center for 700 locations across US Synthetic Data Provided by a CRU weather generator that uses a Markov chain model to generate simulated weather data for 11 UK sites Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 26 


DMITAR Results 1/5 Varying Support DMITAR Results 1/5 Stock Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 6424.7s 132.39s 3.03s 5.556s 16 2348.9s 67.14s 2.14s 4.015s 18 861.92s 34.62s 1.55s 2.89s 20 334.51s 18.89s 1.12s 2.07s 22 143 84s 10 87s 0 87s 1 45s 22 143  84s 10  87s 0  87s 1  45s 24 63.62s 7.15s 0.671s 1.04s Weather Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 16 11913.04s 378.2188s 3.8906s 13.4375s 18 4116s 170.3438s 2.75s 9.1406s 20 1507s 86.5781s 2.14s 6.203s 22 859.2813s 63.3438s 1.7969s 5.7656s 24 378.5313s 36.1875s 1.4375s 3.5625s Synthetic Dataset Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 1651.6s 199.843s 3.1406s 17.015s 16 574 32 119 32 2 0938 10 875 16 574  32 s 119  32 s 2  0938 s 10  875 s 18 416.109s 95.31s 1.6094s 7.39s 20 370.25s 83.31s 1.453s 5.8438s 22 265.78s 66.3438s 1.3594s 4.75s 24 133.96s 43.0781s 0.9219s 3.5781s 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


