2013 IEEE 63rd Annual Conference International Council for Educational Media \(ICEM  978-1-4799-3216-0 / $31.00  © 2013 IEEE  UTILIZATION OF E-LEARNIN G AT UNIVERSITAS SISWA BANGSA INTERNATIONAL: I SSUES AND CHALLENGES   Witdono   ABSTRACT The utilization of e-learning is a part of teaching and l earning activities for students at Universitas Siswa Bangsa International. This paper reports on an investigation into the issues and challenges from experiences of student at 
Faculty of education in Universitas Siswa Bangsa International using e-learning \(USBI\. The e-learning materials were developed particularly by the lecturers at Universitas Siswa Bangsa International. The contents were used by the lecturer in teaching courses use blended learning method The data were collected from 178 students that consist of 2 departments, they are English Language Teaching department and Mathematics department. The data were collected via a semi-structured survey which included 
open and closed-ended questions and collected in the end of semester Students stated that e-learning at Un iversitas Siswa Bangsa International can support their active participation in learning courses. It indicated that th e content of the course, homework and online project is interesting and helps them to understand the whole of materials of courses. Finding in this study found that the internet connections were a big issue in conduct e-learning beside e-learning 
content. This study also found that the quality of elearning was depend on the e-learning content that was pr epared by lecturer.The training to develop high quality e-learning content for lecturers was become crusial and recomended to conducted before the class begin A common problem due to lack of attention of students during the class meeting could be overcome with propose new model of teaching methode to impr ove studentsí learning readiness in 
classroom. This methode was adapted from flip classroom method that give video or others multimedia suplemen that could be learned by student before the class begin  KEYWORDS Learning, management, system, e-learning  Background One of the competences for student teacher candidate ha ve to achieve after they graduate in this 21st century era is information and communication t echnology \(ICT\ literate. Te acher should be equipped by updating knowledge in teaching and learning that use ICT as a teaching media. As a teacher, the 
teacher candidtate will face that in the future th eir students are digital native generation who use computer, cell phone, and any of ICT gadgets as comm on tool in the student daily life. These students having grown up with computers and the internet are sai d to have a natural aptitu de and high skill levels when using new technologies. \(Jones, Ramanau, Cross, & Healing, 2010 E-learning refers to the use of information technol ogy \(ICT\ocesses of education to support and enhance learning in higher education in stitution.\(Al-adwan, 2012 Learning process for teaching and learning process is a great idea. However, limitation of ICT infrastructure such as internet connection, com puter and human resources remains the big issue 
especially in developing country. Therefore teachi ng and learning process is proposed to be conducted in the mix of face-to-face and e-learning combin ation. This teaching method is known as blended learning or hybrid learning. In general blended lear ning could be said a combination between e-learning teaching method and face to face teaching \(traditional method. Face to face or traditional class teaching learning method will help student to discuss the difficulties they face in e-learning. All of the difficulties were solved in the class with pair discussi on, group discussion or to be answered by lecturer directly At Universitas Siswa Bangsa International, blended learning has been applying since even semester on 
2012 as learning method. Blended or hybrid learning is one of the approaches that is utilized to help students for meaningful learning via information and communication technologies in educational settings  \(GeÁer, 2012 ve self-directed learning ability, in which student have the primary responsibility for planning carrying out and evaluating their own learning experiences. \(Caffarella & Baumgartner, 2007 


2013 IEEE 63rd Annual Conference International Council for Educational Media \(ICEM   2 Every lecturer creates online materials and put them on e-learning website. Some of assignment homework and project would be uploaded on elearning website, and students can see their score directly online. The course material is particularly designed as well by a lecturer to help student understanding. Some of material are cons ist of videos, photos and multimedia   Purpose  This study aims to determine the issues and cha llenges of students toward the use of e-learning at Universitas Siswa Bangsa International \(USBI\h used blended learning  Method  A case-study design was used in this study. Part icipant of this study were 178 students from Mathematics and English department at Faculty of Ed ucation at Universitas Siswa Bangsa International The study lasted for 14 weeks, and at the end of th e study, the students filled questionnaire forms and did forum group discussion \(FGD data collection, forms with  open ended questions and  quantitative questions was prepared then was sent to student manually written on paper form. All of data collected were used in qualitative analysis and for quantitative analysis, the data was obtained from the forum group discussion  Data collection and analysis One benefit of e-learning is that e-learning can give easiness in accessing due to the nature of e-learning that could be access from anywhere and anytime as long as there is internet connection In questionnaire form, for the question ìhow ofte n do you access e-learning ?î  only 13% of students who access every day, this result depiceted that mo tivation of students to access of e-learning was driven by course schedule. Students did not have ur gensi or need to open e-learning everyday. This result showed that 74 % of students were engaged actively in learning activity every week. This result then compared with FGD data, its revealed that st udents prefered blended learning method than teacher center method. It was caused by the easiness of e-learning that could be access from everywhere easiness to access course material, a nd easiness of assignment submitting The researcher then investigated in regard to othe rs things that distracted students when they were accesing e-learning. From the FGD, it was found that there were several things such as internet connection problem, e-learning materials that had no t been updating or not well organized , lack of computer skill to use e-learning and some were caused by personal problem such as motivation, loss password and personal financial      Figure 1. Frequency of access e-learning 


2013 IEEE 63rd Annual Conference International Council for Educational Media \(ICEM   3  For question ìwhere was the place during accessing e-l earning ?î, the survey shows that 61% of students who accessing at campus area either using th eir own laptop or campusí personal computers This data depicted that campus is the favorite place to access e-learning. It indicate that the readiness in learning was well developed in students mind. In cam pus, student was ready to learn, the environment had support them to study. This phenomena was good due to campus is place to learn. In this case USBI was did the role as education institution th at provide good environment for learning     Figure 2. Location for accessing e-learning   To grasp studentís attention, the e-learning conten ts was enriched with multimedia materials that consists of video, ilustration or si mulation. In regard to interactive learning materials, the survey found that 43% of students feel somewhat beneficial, 36% feel beneficial, 10% feel not beneficial and 12 feel highly beneficial. This result was confirmed with data from FGD session that students state that the multimedia material was not give clear understandi ng due to time constraint in the classroom    Figure 3. Benefit of the delivery of multimedia  


2013 IEEE 63rd Annual Conference International Council for Educational Media \(ICEM   4 In collaboration or group work activity, students at USBI was use online group discussion forum to comunicate with, 50% of students feel somewhat beneficial, 32.58% feel beneficial, 12.92% feel not beneficial and 4.49% feel high beneficial      Figure 4. Benefit of student collaboration    Social media was included in learning process to engage communication betwen students. From the survey it depicted that Social networking \(e.g facebook, twitter\communicate student-tostudent was 42.61% of students feel beneficial, 29.55% somewhat beneficial, 19.32% feel highly beneficial and 8.52% not beneficial    Figure 5. Benefit of social media fo r revision purposes: student-to-student   The result depicted that social media could increase st udents interest to engage learning. Online revision could help student much to correct theirs assignment immediately, students said that lecture could give feedback as soon as possible and they could did the re vision at that time. It was effective and engaged them to learn more   


2013 IEEE 63rd Annual Conference International Council for Educational Media \(ICEM   5  Discussion Initially, the e-learning was built to facilitate student s with abundant information that they could access in structurally way in learning. Students could learn and share resources at their own pace from the comfort of their own homes. At USBI, students Research into the use by lecturers of e-learning has increased our understanding of pedagogy  \(Oliver, 2006 To achive all benefits of e-learning, the institution should be equiped with well infrastructure the most important is internet connection. Lack of well internet connection could contribute in students frustation in learning process. Due to the result of this study, a recommendation was proposed to impr ove capability of server, bandwidth and computer maintenance  The foundations ñ technology and the learning design - need to be of the highest quality possible.\(Mitchell & Honore, 2007\lended learning sh ould be particularly designed with adequate preparation before it is delivered in class. The lect urer should be trained well to design interactive and effective course material. The ideal blended learni ng model is one that integrates a wide range of functions that empower learners with more control to participate in several formal and informal learning activities.\(Baldwin-Evans, 2006\ The drawback of blended learning method was found that some student appear did not familiar with independent study, they did not seem to be working on their studies independently. There appears to be a strong relian ce on the modul tutor for information and guidance Its better if student could be prepared before the class begin with initial video or reading materials Students could have initial understading on topics that th ey will learn in class. Lecturer could give video or others materials which burning on cd or saved in usb to overcome the lack of internet connection if they are put on e-learning Flipping the classroom employ easy-to-use, readily accessible technology in order to free class time from lecture. This allows for an expanded range of learning activities dunring class time. Using class time for active learning versus lecture provides opport unities for greater teacher-to-student mentoring peer-to-peer collaboration and cross-disciplinary engagement.\(Roehl, 2013    References   Al-adwan, A. \(2012\. Implementing e-learning in the Jordanian Higher Education System Factors affecting impact Ahmad Al-adwan Jo Smedley IJEDICT  8 1\21ñ135 Baldwin-Evans, K. \(2006\ steps to impl ementing a successful blended learning strategy Industrial and Commercial Training  38 3\ñ163. doi:10.1108/00197850610659427 Caffarella, S. B., & Baumgartner. \(2007 Learning in Adulthood A Comprehensive Guide , 3 rd Edition  GeÁer, A. \(2012\ed Learning Experience 12 1\38ñ443 Jones, C., Ramanau, R., Cross, S., & Healing, G 2010\al Natives: Is there a distinct new generati on entering university Computers & Education  54 3\2ñ732 doi:10.1016/j.compedu.2009.09.022 Mitchell, A., & Honore, S. \(2007\arning Industrial and Commercial Training  39 3\3ñ149. doi:10.1108/00197850710742243 Roehl, A. at al. \(2013\ Flipped Classroom An Opportunity to Engage Millennial Students Through Active Learning Strategies JFCS  105 44 


2013 IEEE 63rd Annual Conference International Council for Educational Media \(ICEM   6 AUTHOR AFFILIATION AND ADDRESS INFORMATION  Witdono, M. Kom ICT Lecturer University Siswa Bangsa International Mulia Business Park Kav 58-60 Pancoran Jakarta  - Indonesia       Email: witdono@sampoernaeducation.ac.id    


Parameter User 1 User 2 Reputation User Type \(0.4 Sector \(0.6 Similarity 
 
C C Weighted C C User 2 User 2 
includes the ones presented as part of the service specifications in Table 2 with a few additional ones. Note that for some parameters, we might get both objective and subjective feedbacks, while for others we may get only subjective or only objective feedback In order to consider correctly the evaluation of the service provided by the previous consumer, C does not only require taking into account the evaluation, but also the details of the consumer that generated this evaluation, its profile. In our case is an SME \(with 5 main departments\working in the aeronautic sector, designing specific components of aircrafts Regarding the evaluators, User 1 is an SME working in the Healthcare sector and providing utility software for hospitals User 2 is a large company working in the aeronautic and astronautic sectors Using our ontology, the consideration of these two feedback can take a new dimension. To illustrate this we can compute a simple weighting of these feedback to obtain a reputation for each parameter, which will provide to a clearer perception of the service. Here our focus is not to provide a complex reputation mechanism with the consideration of every parameter and dimension, rather than that it is to show one of the use of our ontology T ABLE 5  F EEDBACK A GGREGATION E XAMPLE  Table 5 presents an example of possible aggregation of mixed objective and subjective feedback. Objective scores are obtained by calculating the ratio between SLA requirement request and measured result. The similarity indicates the similarity between the parameter value in the SLA and the value desired by C. The lines are subtotals giving the impact of userês feedback on the parameter for the calculation of the reputation. For instance, User 1 scalability feedback were relatively low, but they were given of an SLA with a quite different value for this parameter, giving them a lower impact on the final reputation Along with objective and subjective feedback our ontology can help refining the reputation by considering the profile of evaluators T ABLE 6  P ROFILES S IMILARITY  preferences, it takes into account the type of user for 40% of the similarity measure and the sector of the user for 60%. Obviously we could consider more and/or more detailed elements if necessary. The resulting similarity measure can then be used to weight the general impact of usersê feedback on the reputation, combined with intermediate results from Table 5. In our example, the similarity of sector between and will give, in the end, a higher weight to s feedback We have shown in this example how our ontology can unify and drive the consideration of objective and subjective feedback, as well as the help users get more tailored and accurate reputation information V R ELATED W ORK  SLA modeling and evaluation have attracted the interest of researchers in the field of service-oriented computing during the last years. Initial works in SLA modeling \(e.g. WSLA [9  WS-Agreement [12  ha ve fo c use d o n fo r m a l la ng ua ge s th a t  enable the representation of SLAs for Web services. Other works have investigated the process of SLA negotiation [1 and provided frameworks and solutions for the bi/multi-lateral negotiation of SLA parameters. However, these works mainly focused on the description of SLAs and they do not propose a common model for evaluating QoS parameters from different sources, e.g. monitoring tools, userês feedback etc. Our work goes one step further, since it attempts to monitor and update the evaluation of the SLA during the whole service lifecycle including the handling of user feedback to create and feed a meaningful reputation management system In SLA@SOI project, an approach to enable dynamic SLAs has been propos  T h e auth ors propos e th e bin d ing of t h e SLA with a monitoring mechanism, which continuously monitors several Key Performance Indicators to check their compliance with respect to the SLA. SLA@SOI approach is based on a multi-level SLA hierarchy, where SLA parameters are decomposed in different KPIs according to the service laye eak oroh a et al. [6 pro pos ed als o a m a pping of  low-level measurable metrics to high-level SLA parameters that are more relevant from the application perspective. They implement a framework that allows the monitoring of the low level metrics and their mapping to SLA parameters. Although these works adopt the idea of continuous SLA evaluation through monitoring mechanisms, they focus only on the measurable metrics and do not provide a holistic approach that considers the whole spectrum of service evaluation criteria The idea of using ontologies for SLA and QoS management has been applied in several existing works. Dobson  provided a comprehensive literature review on existing ontology-based approaches for the QoS and SLA modeling in service-oriented architectures. In their work, they sketch the requirements and the basic concepts of the SLA and QoS ontology based on the existing QoS ontologies for Web services  11   T h eir p ropos ed s o lu tion reu s e s con ce pts  regarding the design of the QoS and SLA model. Although we aim also to reuse, whenever appropriate, concepts and models 
Agility Scalability 6.792 Objective 5 7.5 Subjective 4 7 Similarity 0.2 1  Performance Response Time 9.333 Objective 10 10 Subjective 8  Similarity 1 0.5   User 1 SME : 0.8 Healthcare : 0.1 0.38 User 2 Large Company : 0.3 Aeronautic : 0.9 0.66 Table 6 presents a simple consideration of the profile to compute a similarity of the profile between C, User 1 and User 2. According to 
Weighted 0.9 7.25 Weighted 9 5 C SME Aeronautic 
38 


Chhetri, M., Lin, J., Goh, S., Yan, J., Zhang, J. Y., & Kowalczyk, R 2006\. A coordinated architecture for the agent-based service level agreement negotiation of Web service composition. Australian Software Engineering Conference, 2006 2 Comuzzi, M., Kotsokalis, C., Rathfelder, C., Theilmann, W., & Winkler U. a. \(2009\ A framework for multi-level SLA management. 2009 international conference on Service-oriented computing 3 Comuzzi, M., Kotsokalis, C., Spanoudakis, G., & Yahyapour, R. \(2009 Establishing and Monitoring SLAs in Complex Service Based Systems International Conference on Web Services, ICWS 2009 4 Dautov, R., Paraskakis, I. & Kourtesis, D. \(2012\. An ontology-driven approach to self-management in cloud application platforms. In Proceedings of the 7th South East European Doctoral Student Conference \(DSC 2012\ \(pp. 539Ö550\ Thessaloniki, Greece 5 Dobson, G., Lock, R., & Sommerville, I. \(2005\. QoSOnt: a QoS ontology for service-centric systems. 31st EUROMICRO Conference on Software Engineering and Advanced Applications., \(pp. 80-87 6 Emeakaroha, V. C., Brandic, I., Maurer, M., & Dustdar, S. \(2010\. Low Level Metrics to High Level SLAs - LoM2HiS Framework: Bridging the Gap. International Conference on High Performance Computing and Simulation \(HPCS 7 Hamadache, K. \(2013\-Based Reputation Life Cycle. In Proceedings of Confederated International Conferences: CoopIS, DOATrusted Cloud, and ODBASE, \(OnTheMove2013\, September 9-13 pages 377Ö394, Graz, Austria, 2013 8 Garg, S. K., Versteeg, S., & Buyya, R. \(2011\. SMICloud: A Framework for Comparing and Ranking Cloud Services. 2011 Fourth IEEE International Conference on Utility and Cloud Computing 9 Keller, A. a. \(2003\. The WSLA Framework: Specifying and Monitoring Service Level Agreements for Web Services. Journal on Network Systems Management, 57-81  Kim, H. M., & Sengupta, A. a. \(2007\ MOQ: Web services ontologies for QoS and general quality evaluations. International Journal of Metadata, Semantics and Ontologies, 195-200  Maximilien, E. a. \(2004\. A framework and ontology for dynamic Web services selection. IEEE Interent Computing, 84-93  Oldham, N., Verma, K., & Sheth, A. a. \(2006\. Semantic WS-agreement partner selection. 15th international conference on World Wide Web WWW '06  Patiniotakis I., Rizou S., Verginadis Y., Mentzas G. \(2013\naging Imprecise Criteria in Cloud Service Ranking with a Fuzzy Multi-Criteria Decision Making Method. In Proceedings of European Conference on Service-Oriented and Cloud Computing \(ESOCC 2013\, September 1113, Pages 34-48, Malaga, Spain, 2013  Rehman, Z. u.,  \(2011\. Towards Multi-criteria Cloud Service Selection 2011 Fifth International Conference on Innovative Mobile and Internet Services in Ubiquitous Computing  Rizou S., Polyviou A \(2012\. Towards value-based resource provisioning in the Cloud, In Proceedings of the 4th IEEE International Conference in Cloud Computing Technology and Science Conference December 3-6, pages 155-160, Taipeh, Taiwan, 2012  Zhou, C., Chia, L.-T., & Lee, B.-S. \(2005\. Semantics in service discovery and QoS measurement. IT Professional, 29-34  Cloud Services Measurement In itiative Consortium \(CSMIC\, \(2011 Service measurement index,é Version 1.0 http://www.cloudcommons.com/documents/10508/186d5f13-f40e-47adb9a6-4f246cf7e34f, [Accessed on 31/07/201  
 
from existing ontologies, the focus of our work is to build a holistic SLA ontology for services evaluation. Therefore the QoS model to be used should be tailored to the specific aspects of service life cycle In that respect, the QoS model could be based on existing works in the field of cloud computing that focused on the development of cloud service evaluation m i n e a set of criteria upon which the comparison of different services can be done. These works are complementary to ours since they provide a reference model to build the QoS ontology that includes a set of evaluation criteria for cloud service comparison. Finally, relevant to our work are also approaches that tackle the problem of cloud service evaluation and selection 14   T h es e approach es ap ply t y pical l y  decision making methods to decide on the optimal service with respect to the requirements. Most of these works have focused on the evaluation of quantitative selection criteria limiting thus their scope only to those criteria that can be directly measured. Recently it has been proposed in a  fuzzy-based approach for the consideration of both quantitative and qualitative metrics. Our work is also complementary to these efforts since our goal is to provide a theoretical basis and a common vocabulary upon which this decision making process can be applied. In particular, since the evaluation of qualitative metrics is a hard task, in this paper we have argued that the use of a service reputation mechanism that spans over the different selection criteria can be assistive in an effort to evaluate and integrate qualitative metrics during the service selection VI D ISCUSSION AND F UTURE W ORKS  In this paper, we have motivated the need for a holistic model which connects all the lifecycle steps based on a common QoS ontology. To this end, we have presented an SLA ontology that introduces key concepts, such as Service, QoS Requirements, Role, Actor and Feedback which are tightly connected with SLA. Our ontology distinguishes between objective feedback coming from software monitoring and subjective feedback coming from the evaluation of users. We propose a symmetric handling of these two kinds of feedback and we demonstrate through a simple example, how objective and subjective feedback could provide input to a cloud service selection method. Furthermore, the ontology allows the profiling of users to enable the filtering of feedback according to their source Currently we assume that users feedback are expressed as numeric values in Lickert scale, and the aggregated feedback could be calculated as an average value. This aggregated value could be used as input to existing cloud selection methods [8   Bes ides  in f u t u re w o rk w e w a n t  to u s e th e S LA on tol ogy  in order to enrich our ontology and build a more sophisticated reputation mechanism that co nsiders the reliability of the feedback and its source, as well as reputation of other actors of the ecosystem. Furthermore, we want to explore other possible applications of our ontology, including SLA establishment negotiation, service adaptation and selection A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The research presented in this paper is supported by the European Union within the FP7 Marie Curie Initial Training Network çRELATEé and the FP7 B IBLIOGRAPHY  1 
                 
39 


  9  B IOGRAPHIES  Shinichiro Hamada received the B.E. degree in information and communication engineering at Tokyo Denki University in 2011.  He is currently pursing the M.E. degree at the same university. His research interests lie in the area of ultra wideband wireless communication Atsushi Tomiki received B.E., M.E and Ph.D. degrees from Tokyo Denki University in 2002, 2004, and 2007 respectively.  He joined the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency JAXA was engaged in development on deep space telecommunication systems He is currently an assistant professor at the Department of Spacecraft Engineering, the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science in the JAXA.  His research interests include UWB systems for fly-by-wireless, and electromagnetic compatibility in scientific spacecrafts  Tomoaki Toda received the B.S M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in electronic engineering from the University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan in 1994, 1996, and 1999 respectively. Since 1999, he has been with the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science, Sagamihara Japan and responsible for RF and optical telecommunication technologies of missions of the institute.  His current research interests are in deep space communication systems using both RF and optical signals and applications of wireless communication technologies for the innovation of spacecraft design  Takehiko Kobayashi received the B.E., M.E., and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Tokyo in 1978, 1980 and 1983.  He joined Nippon Telegraph and Telephone in 1983 and was engaged in research on various wireless communication systems.  He was a guest scientist at National Bureau of Standard \(now NIST Colorado, U. S. A. from 1986 to 1987.  From 1998 to 2001, he was with YRP Key Tech Labs, which focused on the 4th generation mobile communication systems.  Currently, he is a professor at the Department of Information and Communication Engineering, Tokyo Denki University.  He received the IEICE Best Paper Awards in 2001 and 2002, the IEICE Achievement Award in 2008, and the Telecom System Awards from the Telecommunications Advancement Foundation in 2003 and 2005.  His current research interests include ultra wideba nd wireless systems, mobile communication channel charac terization, and teletraffic evaluation of mobile communication networks      


      178  en-US Ullman, C., & Rabinowitz, M. \(2004\ Course management systems and the reinvention of instruction. THE Journal From en-US www.thejournal.com/articles/17014 en-US  Retrieved on Jan. 20, 201 2    en-US Unal Z  Unal A  2011 Evaluating and Comparing the Usability of Web based Course Management Systems  Journal of Information Technology Education  10 19 38  en-US Venkatesh, V  Davis, F  D \(2000\ A Theoretical e xtension of the t echnology Acceptance Model: Four l ongitudinal f ield s tudies Management Science  46 186 204  Wong S L  Teo T 2009 Investigating the technology acceptance among student teachers in Malaysia An application of the Technology Acceptance Model TAM The Asia Pacific Ed ucation Researcher 18 2  261 272  en-US           Mood                                           1  da \(4  madde 2  A   madde  3 K   4 D    5 B     6 T eknik destek 4  madd         anla      Ama yine              


 Determini ng the Factors of Affecting the Moodle Use by Using TAM. The Story of a University after a Destructive Earthquake  179               N  N   N  evam etmektedirler     N  ve uzman  N   seviyesinde        acemi  N  N        erilen modelde yedi       irleriyle olan   dokuz   potezlerden birinci si     bu  hipotez  t    0,46       v   iki  hipotezde desteklenmi    etkilemektedir   e leri    ozitif etkisi old            Bu hipotezde                    nan fayda       hipotez   r               en-US Citation Information  en-US  201 4  Determining the factors of affecting the moodle use by  using tam the stor y of a university after a destructive earthquake   esi Dergisi Hacettepe University Journal of Education   2 9 1 169 179  en-US  


1581 1592 1604 1613 1625 1637 1649 1661 1673 1685 1697 1707 1719 1731 Multithreaded Agent-Based Simulation Michael Edwards Goldsby, Carmen M. Pancerella Simulation Studies of Viral Advertisement Diffusion On Multi-GPU Jiangming Jin, Stephen John Turner, Bu-Sung Lee, Jianlong Zhong, Bingsheng He A Holisitic Architecture for Super Real-Time Multiagent Simulation Platforms Toyotaro Suzumura, Hiroki Kanezashi Hybrid Modeling A Hybrid Simulation Framework for the Newsvendor Problem with Advertising and Viral Marketing Ashkan Negahban Distributed Hybrid Agent-Based Discre te Event Emergency Medical Services Simulation Anastasia Anagnostou, Athar Nouman, Simon J.E. Taylor Exploring Feedback and Endogeneity in Agent-based Models Ignacio J. Martinez-Moyano, Charles M. Macal Applications in Social Science and Organizations Methodological Advances in Social Simulation Verification Through Calibration: An Approach and A Case Study of a Model of Conflict in Syria Maciej M. Latek, Seyed M. Mussavi Rizi, Armando Geller Exploration of Purpose for Multi-Method Simulation in the Context of Social Phenomena Representation Mariusz Balaban, Patrick Hester Advanced Policy Design Using Multiagent Simulation Simulation of Housing Market Dynamics Amenity Distribution and Housing Vacancy Haoying Wang, Chia-Jung Chang A Simulation-based Approach to Analyze the Information Diffusion in Microblogging Online Social Network Maira Gatti, Ana Paula Appel, Cicero Nogueira dos Santos, Claudio Santos Pinhanez, Paulo Rodrigo Cavalin, Samuel Barbosa Neto Disease Modeling Within Refugee Camps: A Multi-agent Systems Approach Andrew Crooks Applications in Economics An Agent-based Model for Sequential Dutch Auctions Eric Guerci, Sonia Moulet, Alan Kirman An Empirically-Grounded Simulation of Bank Depositors Wayne Zandbergen If You Are So Rich, Why Aren't You Smart Nobuyuki Hanaki, Juliette Rouchier Using Experiments to Increase Realism in Social Simulation Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 12 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


1742 1754 1766 1778 1784 1793 1805 1818 1824 1835 1847 1856 1869 Comparing Agent-based Models on Expe rimental Data of Irrigation Games Jacopo Baggio, Marco Janssen Replicating Human Interaction in Braess Paradox Arianna Dal Forno, Ugo Merlone Using Gaming Simulation Expe riments to Test Railway Innovations: Implications for Validity Julia Chantal Lo, Jop Van den Hoogen, Sebastiaan Arno Meijer Business Process Modeling Simulation in Insurance I Simulating a Modified Hybrid Approach to Resource Assignment in a Shared Billing and Claims Call Center Quinn D. Conley, Mark Grabau Business Process Simulation for Claims Transformation Mark Grabau, Quinn D. Conley, Melissa Marshall Stochastic Simulation of Optimal Insurance Policies to Manage Supply Chain Risk Elliot Wolf Simulation in Insurance II Simulating Abandonment Using Kaplan-Meier Survival Analysis in a Shared Billing and Claims Call Center Quinn D. Conley Monte Carlo Simulation for Insura nce Agency Contingent Commission Mark Grabau, Michael Yurik Simulation Modeling of Manufacturing Processes A System Dynamics Approach for Poultry Operation to Achieve Additional Benefits Mohammad Shamsuddoha, Mohammed Quaddus, Desmond Klass Upsizing Manufacturing Line in Vietnamese Industrial Plants: A Simulation Approach Minh Nguyen Dang, Toan Nguyen Dang Modeling Complex Business Processes Forecasting Economic Performance of Implemented Innovation Openness Kristina Risom Jespersen A Two-Phase Approach for Stochastic Optimization of Complex Processes Soumyadip Ghosh, Aliza Heching, Mark S. Squillante Environmental and Sustainability Applications Energy Generation and Demand An Inverse PDE-ODE Model for Studying Building Energy Demand Lianjun An, Young Tae Chae, Raya Horesh, Young Lee, Rui Zhang Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 13 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


1881 1893 1905 1917 1926 1938 1950 1961 1973 1984 1996 2008 2020 A Hybrid Simulation Model For Large-Scaled Electricity Generation Systems Marco Pruckner, Reinhard German A DDDAMS Framework for Real-Time Load Dispatching in Power Networks Aristotelis E. Thanos, Xiaoran Shi, Juan P. Saenz, Nurcin Celik Modeling Methodology for Sustainability Simulation Model in a Free and Open-S ource Software for Carbon Monoxide Emissions Analysis Joao Jose de Assis Rangel, Gabriel Lima de Oliveira Tulio Almeida Peixoto, Italo de Oliveira Matias Eduardo Shimoda, Leonardo das Dores Cardoso Promoting Green Internet Computing throughout Simulation-Optimization Scheduling Algorithms Guillem Cabrera, Angel Alejandro Juan, Hebert PÈrez-RosÈs, Joan Manuel MarquËs, Javier Faulin Startup Methodology for Production Flow Simulation Projects Assessing Environmental Sustainability Tobias Dettmann, Clas Andersson, Jon Andersson, Anders Skoogh, Bjˆrn Johansson, Per-Olof Forsbom Simulation for Environmental Safety An Effective Proposal Distribution for Sequential Monte Carlo Methods-Based Wildfire Data Assimilation Haidong Xue, Xiaolin Hu Simulation and Optimization for an Experi mental Environment to Wildfire Resource Management and Planning: Firefight Project Modelling and Architecture Jaume Figueras i Jove, Toni Guasch i Petit Pau Fonseca i Casas, Josep Casanovas i GarcÌa Formalizing Geographical Models Using Sp ecification and Description Language: The Wildfire Example Pau Fonseca i Casas, Josep Casanovas, Jaume Figueras, Antoni Guasch Sustainable Manufact uring Applications Decision Making on Manufacturing System from the Perspective of Material Flow Cost Accounting Hikaru Ichimura, Soemon Takakuwa MFCA-Based Simulation Analysis for Production Lot-Size Determination in a MultiVariety and Small-Batc h Production System Run Zhao, Hikaru Ichimura, Soemon Takakuwa Multi-Resolution Modeling for Supply Chain Sustainability Analysis Sanjay Jain, SigrÌur SigurardÛttir, Erik Lindskog, Jon Andersson, Anders Skoogh, Bjˆrn Johansson Urban and Traffic Simulation Simulating the Effect of Urban Morphology on Indoor Thermal Behavior: An Italian Case Study Anna Laura Pisello, John Eric Taylor, Franco Cotana Simple and Fast Trip Generation for Large Scale Traffic Simulation Takashi Imamichi, Rudy Raymond General Applications Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 14 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


2032 2042 2054 2066 2076 2088 2097 2109 2116 2127 2139 2151 2163 2172 2180 Simulation Applications I A Simulation-Based Algorithm for the Inte grated Location and Routing Problem in Urban Logistics Andres MuÒoz-Villamizar, Jairo R. Montoya-Torres, Angel A. Juan, Jose C·ceres-Cruz Dynamic Data Driven Event Reconstruction for Traffic Simulation Using Sequential Monte Carlo Methods Xuefeng Yan, Feng Gu, Xiaolin Hu, Carl Engstrom Simulation-based Optimization of Inform ation Security Controls: An AdversaryCentric Approach Elmar Kiesling, Andreas Ekelhart, Bernhard Grill, Christine Strauﬂ, Christian Stummer Simulation Applications II Hybrid Simulation Decision Support System for University Management Luis F. Robledo, Jose A. Sepulveda, Sandra Archer West Nile Virus System Dynamics Investigation in Dallas County, TX Mohammad F. Obeid, John Shull Could Simulation Optimizati on Have Prevented 2012 Centra l Florida Election Lines Jingsheng Li, Theodore Allen, Kimiebi Akah Simulation Applications III Green Production - Strategies and Dynamics: A Simula tion Based Study Ming Zhou, Yanchun Pan, Zhimin Chen Reducing Inventory Cost for a Medica l Device Manufacturer Using Simulation Jeffrey Tew, Gautam Sardar, Kyle Cooper, Erick Wikum Using a Natural Language Generation Appr oach to Document Simulation Results James C. Curry, Weihang Zhu, Brian Craig, Lonnie Turpin, Majed Bokhari, Pavan Mhasavekar Advanced Simulation Modeling I On-time Data Exchange in Fully-Parallelized Co-Simulation with Conservative Synchronization Asim Munawar, Takeo Yoshizawa, Tatsuya Ishikawa, Shuichi Shimizu Time Management In Hierarchical Fe deration Using RTI-RTI Interoperation Min-Wook Yoo Modeling and Simulating the Effects of OS Jitter Elder Vicente, Rivalino Matias Jr Advanced Simulation Modeling II Open-Source Simulation Software "JaamSim Harry King, Harvey S. Harrison A Balanced Sequential Design Strategy for Global Surrogate Modeling Prashant Singh, Dirk Deschrijver, Tom Dhaene A SysML-based Simulation Model Aggregat ion Framework for Seedling Propagation System Chao Meng, Sojung Kim, Young-Jun Son, Chieri Kubota Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 15 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


2192 2204 2215 2227 2239 2250 2262 2274 2287 2299 2309 2320 Healthcare Applications Outpatient Clinic Capacity Analysis A Simulation Based Analysis on Reducing Patient Waiting Time for Consultation in an Outpatient Eye Clinic Xianfei Jin, Appa Iyer Sivakumar, Sing Yong Lim Simulation as a Guide for Systems Rede sign in Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Appointment Template Redesign Javad Taheri, Ziad F. Gellad, Dariele Burchfield, Kevin J. Cooper Capacity Management and Patient Scheduling in an Outpatient Clinic Using Discrete Event Simulation Gokce Akin, Julie S. Ivy, Thomas R. Rohleder, Yariv N. Marmor, Todd R. Huschka Epidemic Medical Decisions An Agent-Based Simulation of a Tuberculos is Epidemic: Understanding the Timing of Transmission Parastu Kasaie, David W. Dowdy, W. David Kelton Identifying Superspreaders for Epidemic s using R0-Adjusted Network Centrality Taesik Lee, Hyun-Rok Lee, Kyosang Hwang Remote Care Clinics Improving Services in Outdoor Patient Departments by Focusing on Process Parameters: A Simulation Approach Sanjay Verma, Ashish Gupta Continuous Variable Control Approach for Home Care Crew Scheduling Seokgi Lee, Yuncheol Kang, Vittaldas V. Prabhu A Simulation Analysis of a Patient-Center ed Surgical Home to Improve Outpatient Surgical Processes of Care and Outcomes Douglas Morrice, Dongyang \(Ester\ng, Jonathan Bard, Luci Leykum, Susan Noorily, Poornachand Veerapaneni Outpatient Access Simulation-based Operation Management of Outpatient Departments in University Hospitals Byoung K. Choi, Donghun Kang, Joohoe Kong, Hyeo nsik Kim, Arwa Abdullah Jamjoom, Aisha M Mogbil, Thoria A. Alghamdi The GAP-DRG Model: Simulation of Outpatient Care for Comparison of Different Reimbursement Schemes Patrick Einzinger, Niki Popper, Nina Pfeffer, Re inhard Jung, Gottfried Endel, Felix Breitenecker Modeling and Simulation of Patient Admission Services in a Multi-Specialty Outpatient Clinic Bruno Mocarzel, David Shelton, Berkcan Uyan, Eduardo Perez, Jesus Jimenez, Lenore DePagter Medical Decision Analysis Characteristics of a Simulation Model of the National Kidney Transplantation System Ashley Elizabeth Davis, Sanjay Mehrotra, John Friedewald, Daniela Ladner Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 16 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


2330 2340 2350 2362 2374 2386 2398 2410 2422 2432 2444 2452 2463 2475 An Agent-Based Simulation Framework to Analyze the Prevalence of Child Obesity Adrian Ramirez-Nafarrate, J. Octavio Gutierrez-Garcia Concierge Medicine: Adoption, Design, and Management Srinagesh Gavirneni, Vidyadhar Kulkarni, Andrew Manikas, Alexis Karageorge Emergency Room Access Physician Shift Behavior and Its Impact on Service Performances in an Emergency Department Biao Wang, Kenneth N. McKay, Jennifer Jewer, Ashok Sharma Improving Patient Length-of-Stay in Emergency Department through Dynamic Queue Management Kar Way Tan, Hoong Chuin Lau, Francis Chun Yue Lee Minimizing Flow-Time and Time-to-First-Treatment in an Emergency Department through Simulation Seifu John Chonde, Carlos Parra, Chia-Jung Chang Emergency Room Planning and Design Estimating Future Demand for Hospital Em ergency Services at the Regional Level Bozena Mielczarek SysML for Conceptual Modeli ng and Simulation for Analysis: A Case Example of a Highly Granular Model of an Emergency Department Ola Batarseh, Eugene Day, Eric Goldlust Emergency Medical Service System Design Evaluator Kyohong Shin, Inkyung Sung, Taesik Lee Healthcare Optimization Optimizing Throughput of a Multi-Room Proton Therapy Treatment Center via Simulation Stuart Price, Bruce Golden, Edward Wasil, Hao Zhang Pre-Hospital Simulation Model for Medical Disaster Management Christophe Ullrich, Filip Va n Utterbeeck, Emilie Dejardin An Alternative Approach To Modeling A Pre-Surgical Screening Clinic Philip Marc Troy, Nadia Lahrichi, Lawrence Rosenberg Hospital Discharge Analysis Simulation of the Patient Discha rge Process and Its Improvement Zbigniew J. Pasek Evaluating Policy Interventions for Delayed Discharge: A System Dynamics Approach Wael Rateb Rashwan, Mohamed A.F. Ragab, Waleed Abo-Hamad, Amr Arisha Homeland Security and Emergency Response Emergency Response and Natural Disasters Multi-Objective Optimization for Bridge Retrofit to Address Earthquake Hazards Nathanael J.K. Brown, Jared L. Gearhart, Dean A. Jones, Linda K. Nozick, Natalia Romero, Ningxiong Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 17 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


2487 2496 2508 2520 2532 2544 2553 2565 2577 2587 2598 2610 2622 Xu Modeling the Inclusion of Trapped Victims in Logistics Planning for Earthquake Response: A Case Study in the City of Bogota Raha Akhavan-Tabatabaei, Ridley Santiago Morales, Maria Camila Hoyos Exploring How Hierarchical Modeling an d Simulation Can Improve Organizational Resourcing Decisions David K. Peterson, Ericson R. Davis, Jeremy M. Eckhause, Michael R. Pouy, Stephanie M. SigalasMarkham, Vitali Volovoi Homeland Security Simulating the Potential Impacts of a 10-Kiloton Nuclear Explosion on an Electric Power System Serv ing a Major City Edgar C. Portante, Gustav R. Wulfkuhle, Leah T Malone, James A. Kavicky, Stephen M. Folga, Edward A. Tanzman An Agent-based Simulation Approach for Dual Toll Pricing of Hazardous Material Transportation Sojung Kim, Santosh Mungle, Young-Jun Son A Comparison of Evalutaion Method s for Police Patrol Distric Designs Yue Zhang, Samuel H. Huddleston, Donald E. Brown, Gerard P. Learmonth Manufacturing Applications Simulation for Manufacturing Control Support Discrete Event Simulation for Integr ated Design in the Production and Commissioning of Manufacturing Systems Leonardo das Dores Cardoso, Joao Jose de Assis Rangel, Patrick Junior Teixeira Bastos Simulation-Based Hybrid Control Research On WIP In A Multi-Tightly-Coupled-Cells Production System Run Zhao, Soemon Takakuwa Consistent Use of Emulation Across Different Stages of Plant Development - The Case of Deadlock Avoidance fo r Cyclic Cut-to-Size Processes Ruth Fleisch, Robert Schˆch, Thorsten Prante, Robert Pflegerl Models for Specific Ma nufacturing Applications A Simulation Tool For Complex Assembly Lines With Multi-Skilled Resources Evangelos Angelidis, Daniel Bohn, Oliver Rose A Simulation-Based Approach to Inventory Management in Batch Process with Flexible Recipes Long He, Simin Huang, Zuo-Jun Max Shen Modeling and Simulation of a Mattress Production Line Using ProModel Mohammad Hakim Khalili, Farhad Zahedi Scheduling of Manufacturing Tasks Simulation-Based Planning of Maintenanc e Activities in The Automative Industry Christoph Laroque, Anders Skoogh, Maheshwaran Gopalakrishnan Intelligent Dispatching in Dynamic Stochastic Job Shops Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 18 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


2633 2643 2654 2666 2677 2689 2698 2710 2722 2730 2742 2751 2762 2772 Tao Zhang, Oliver Rose Simulation-based Overhead-Crane Scheduling for a Manufacturing Plant Tao Zhang, Oliver Rose Simulation and Optimization for MHS Near Optimality Guarantees for Data Driven Newsvendor with Temporally Dependent Demand: A Monte Carlo Approach Alp Akcay, Bahar Biller, Sridhar Tayur The Search for Experimental Design with Tens of Variables: Preliminary Results Yaileen Marie MÈndez-V·zquez, Kasandra Li lia RamÌrez-Rojas, Mauricio Cabrera-RÌos Optimization of Production and Invent ory Policies for Dishwasher Wire Rack Production through Simulation Han Wu, Gerald W. Evans, Sunderesh S. Heragu Formal Models for Manufact uring Simulation Applications A Data Model for Carbon Footprint Simulation in Consumer Goods Supply Chains Markus Rabe, Kai Gutenschwager, Till Fechteler, Mehmet Umut Sari Application of a Generic Simulation Model to Optimize Production and Workforce Planning at an Automotive Supplier Thomas Felberbauer, Klaus Altendorfer, Alexander H¸bl, Daniel Gruber Formal Models for Alternative Repres entations of Manufactoring Systems of Systems Seungyub Lee, Richard Alle n Wysk, Dongmin gg Shin Experiment Design and Evaluation Reducing Computation Time in Simulation Based Optimization of Manufacturing Systems Matthias Frank, Christoph Laroque, Tobias Uhlig Mitigating the "Hawthorne Effect" in Simulation Studies Charles Harrell, Bruce Gladwin, Michael Hoag A Comparison of Kanban-Like Control Strategies in a Multi-product Manufacturing System under Erratic Demand Chukwunonyelum Emmanuel Onyeocha, Joseph Khoury, John Geraghty Military Applications Simulation of Operational Systems Simulating Satellite Downlink Data Loss And Recovery Due To Rain Attenuation Douglas C. Shannon, Richard K. Marymee Analyzing Noncombatant Evacuation Oper ations using Discrete Event Simulation Dallas Kuchel Forecasting Effects of MISO Actions: An ABM Methodology Chris Weimer, J.O. Miller, Mark Friend, Janet Miller Military Support Modeling Using Discrete Event Simulation to Evalua te Time Series Forecasting Methods for Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 19 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


2784 2796 2807 2819 2831 2842 2854 2866 2878 2889 2902 2914 2923 Security Applications Samuel H. Huddleston, Donald E. Brown A Discrete Event Simulation Environment Tailored to the Needs of Military Human Resources Management Stephen Okazawa Simulation and Analysis of EXPRESS Run Frequency David Williams, J.O. Miller, Dan Mattioda Command and Control Models Challenges of and Criteria for Validating a Physiology Model within a TCCC Serious Game Axel Lehmann, Hwa Feron, Marko Hofmann Reconfigurable C3 Simulation Framework: Interoperation between C2 and Communication Simulators Bong Gu Kang, Tag Gon Kim Weapon Tradeoff Analysis Using Dynamic Programming for a Dynamic Weapon Target Assignment Problem Within a Simulation Darryl Ahner Simulation for Military Planning A Stochastic Discrete Event Simu lator for Effects-Based Planning Hirad Cyrus Asadi, Johan Schubert Construction Planning Simulation at GRU Airport Marcelo Moretti Fioroni, Luiz Augusto Ga go Franzese, Marcello Costa, Andre Kuhn 2 Canadian Forces Flying Training School \(2 CFFTS\Resource Allocation Simulation Tool RenÈ SÈguin, Charles Hunter Military Distributed Simulation Runtime Execution Management Of Distributed Simulations Chris Gaughan An Analysis of Parallel Interest Matching Algorithms in Distributed Virtual Environments Elvis S. Liu, Georgios K. Theodoropoulos Networks Network Simulation I On Simulating the Resilience of Military Hub and Spoke Networks Robert Bryce, Raman Pall, Ahmed Ghanmi Architecture-Based Network Si mulation for Cyber Security Drew Hamilton Modelling Wireless Networks with the DEVS and Cell-DEVS formalisms Gabriel Wainer, Emilie Broutin, Misagh Tavanpour Network Simulation II Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 20 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


2935 2947 2959 2972 2984 2996 3008 3018 3030 3042 3051 3059 3066 3074 Optimizing Coverage of Th ree-Dimensional Wireless Se nsor Networks by Means of Photon Mapping Bruce A. Johnson, Hairong Qi, Jason C. Isaacs On the Transient Response of Open Queu eing Networks Using Ad Hoc Distributed Simulations Ya-Lin Huang, Christos Alexopoulos, Michael Hunter, Richard Fujimoto Real-Time Scheduling of Logical Processes for Parallel Discrete-Event Simulation Jason Liu Network Simulation III Small-Scale: A New Model of Social Networks Ericsson Santana Marin Cedric Luiz de Carvalho The Design of an Output Data Collection Framework for ns-3 L. Felipe Perrone, Thomas R. Henderson Vinicius Daly Felizardo, Mitchell Watrous Impacts of Application Lookahead on Distributed Network Emulation Yuhao Zheng, Dong Jin, David M. Nicol Project Management and Construction Data-Driven and Adaptive Construc tion Simulation and Visualization On-Line Simulation of Building Energy Pr ocesses: Need and Research Requirements Vineet R. Kamat, Carol C. Menassa, SangHyun Lee Utilizing Simulation Derived Quantitative Formulas for Accurate Excavator Hauler Fleet Selection David Morley, Ming Lu, Simaan AbouRizk Automated Knowledge Discovery and Data-D riven Simulation Model Generation of Construction Operations Reza Akhavian, Amir Behzadan Agent Based Modeling in Sustainable Infrastructure Design, Construction and Operation Energy Saving Information Cascades in Online Social Networks: An Agent-based Simulation Study John Taylor, Qi Wang Modeling Occupant Energy Use Interven tations in Evolving Social Networks Kyle Anderson, SangHyun Lee Exploration of the Effect of Workers' In fluence Network on Their Absence Behavior Using Agent-Based Modeling and Simulation Seungjun Ahn, Kyle Anderson, SangHyun Lee Visual Simulation in Constrution Engineering and Mangement As-Built Modeling and Visual Simulation of Tunnels Using Real-Time TBM Positioning Data Xiaodong Wu, Ming Lu, Xuesong Shen, Sheng Mao Technology-Enhanced Learning in Construction Education Using Mobile Context-Aware Augmented Re ality Visual Simulation Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 21 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


3086 3098 3109 3121 3133 3145 3157 3169 3181 3191 3203 3215 3225 3237 Arezoo Shirazi, Amir Behzadan Location-Aware Real-Time Simulation Framework for Earthmoving Projects Using Automated Machine Guidance Faridaddin Vahdatikhaki, Amin Hammad, Shayan Setayeshgar Simulation and Visualization for Sustainable Development and Construction Simulation-Based Evaluation of Fuel Cons umption in Heavy Construction Projects By Monitoring Equipment Idle Times Reza Akhavian, Amir Behzadan Integrated Evaluation of Cost, Schedule and Emission Performance on Rock-Filled Concrete Dam Construction Operation Using Discrete Event Simulation Chunna Liu, Xuehui An, Changbum R. Ahn, SangHyun Lee Uncertainty Modeling and Simulation of Tool Wear in Mechanized Tunneling Tobias Rahm, Ruben Duhme, Kambiz Sadri, Markus Thewes, Markus Kˆnig Simulation in Construction an d Project Management Education An Integrated Model of Team Motivation and Worker Skills for a Computer-Based Project Management Simulation Wee-Leong Lee Development of a Distributed Construction Project Management Game with COTS in the Loop Yasser Mohamed, Mostafa Ali Novel Use of Singularity Functions to Model Periodic Phenomena in Cash Flow Analysis Yi Su, Gunnar Lucko Algorithm Performance Evaluation by Simulation Simulation for Characterizing a Progressive Registration Algorithm Aligning As-Built 3D Point Clouds against As-Designed Models Pingbo Tang, Syed Hammad Rasheed Simulation and Optimization of Tempor ary Road Network in Mass Earthmoving Projects Chang Liu, Ming Lu, Sam Johnson Integration of Simulation and Pareto-bas ed Optimization for Space Planning in Finishing Phase Trang Dang, Hans-Joachim Bargst‰dt Construction Process Simulation Model-Based Construction Work Analysis Considering Process-Related Hazards Juergen Melzner, Sebastian Hollermann, S ilvia Kirchner, Hans-Joachim Bargst‰dt A Discrete Event Simulation Model of Asphalt Paving Operations Ramzi Labban, Simaan AbouRizk, Zuhair Haddad, Amr Elsersy Assessment of Construction Operations Productivity Rate as Computed by Simulation Models Hani Alzraiee, Tarek Zayed, Osama Moselhi Innovation and Integration in Scheduling and Simulation Construction Schedule Simulation for Improv ed Project Planning: Activity Criticality Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 22 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


3249 3257 3269 3282 3294 3306 3318 3330 3340 3352 3363 3375 3385 3395 Index Assessment Amlan Mukherjee Time-Stepped, Simulation-Based Schedu ling System for Large-Scale Industrial Construction Projects Di Hu, Yasser Mohamed Temporal Perspectives in Cons truction Simulation Modeling Gunnar Lucko, Amlan Mukherjee Construction Operation Analysis Using Simulation Modeling Pipeline Projects Using Computer Simulation Khaled Nassar Effective Simulation of Earth Moving Projects Jamal Siadat, Janaka Ruwanpura Modeling and Simulating Spatial Requirements of Construction Activities Arnim Marx, Markus Kˆnig Simulation in Manufacturing Planning of Buildings Fritz Berner, Vitali Kochkine, Sven Spieckermann, Ilka Habenicht, Cornelius V‰th Supply Chain Management and Transportation Supply Chain Optimization I Investigating The Effect Of Demand Aggregation On The Performance Of An \(R, Q Inventory Control Policy Manuel Rossetti, Mohammad Shbool, Vijith Varghese, Edward Pohl Revenue and Production Management in a Multi-Echelon Supply Chain Alireza Kabirian, Ahmad Sarfaraz, Mark Rajai Agile Logistics Simulation and Optimization for Managing Disaster Responses Francisco Barahona, Markus Ettl, Marek Petrik, Peter M. Rimshnick Supply Chain Optimization II Coupling Ant Colony Optimization and Discrete-Event Simu lation to Solve a Stochastic Location-Routing Problem Nilson Herazo-Padilla, Santiago Nieto Isaza, Jairo R. Montoya-Torres, Luis Ra mirez Polo, Andres MuÒozVillamizar Solving Location Problems Using Simulation Modeling Fredrik Persson, Daniel Erlandsson, Alexander Larsson, Maria Johansson Simulation Analysis of Supply Chain Systems with Reverse Logistics Shigeki Umeda Freight Operations Optimization Simulation Model for Container Fleet Sizing on Dedicated Route Joao Ferreira Netto, Rui Carlos Botter Simulation-based Truck Fleet Analysis To Study The Impact of Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administrationís 2013 Hours of Service Regu lation Changes Jeff R. Young Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 23 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


3406 3418 3430 3440 3450 3462 3475 3486 3499 3510 3522 3533 Hybrid Algorithm for the Optimization of Multimodal Freight Transport Services Marine Application Diego Crespo Pereira, Rosa Rios Prado, David del Rio Vilas, Alejandro Garcia del Valle, Nadia Rego Monteil Distribution Center Optimization Simulation Aided, Self-Adapting Knowledge Based Control of Material Handling Systems Alexander Klaas, Christoph Laroque Hendrik Renken, Wilhelm Dangelmaier Analysis of Assignment Rules in a Manually Operated Distribution Warehouse Uwe Clausen, Peiman Dabidian, Daniel Diekmann, Ina Goedicke, Moritz Pˆting Lean Distribution Assessment Using an Integrated Framework of Value Stream Mapping and Simulation Amr Mahfouz, Amr Arisha Port Simulation Managing Container Reshuffling in Vessel Loading by Simulation Pasquale Legato, Rina Mary Mazza Evaluation of Different Berthing Scenarios in Shahid Rajaee Container Terminal using Discrete-Event Simulation Mohammad Amin Rahaee, Mehrdad Memarpour, Erfan Hasannayebi Physical Objects on Navigation Channal Simulation Models Daniel de Oliveira Mota, Newton Narciso Pereira Industry Specific Supply Chains Multi-echelon Network Optimization of Pharmaceutical Cold Chains: A Simulation Study Niranjan S. Kulkarni, Suman Niranjan Reducing Wagon Turnaround Times by Redesigning the Outbound Dispatch Operations of a Steel Plant Atanu Mukherjee, Arindam Som, Arnab Adak Modeling the Sugar Cane Logistics from Farm to Mill Marcelo Moretti Fioroni, Luiz Augusto Gago Franze se, Douglas JosÈ da Silva, M·rio JosÈ Barbosa Cerqueira Junior, Daniel de Amorim de Almeida Natural Resource Supply Chains Simulation-Based Robust Optimization for Complex Truck-Shovel Systems in Surface Coal Mines Sai Srinivas nageshwaraniyer, Young-Jun Son, Sean Dessureault Signal-Oriented Ra ilroad Simulation Marcelo Moretti Fioroni, Johanna Gomez Quevedo, Isac Reis Santana, Luiz Augusto Gago Franzese Daniel Cuervo, Paola Sanchez, Francesco Narducci Simulation Education Panel: Education for Professi onal Analytics Certification Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 24 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


3544 3556 3568 3576 3588 3600 3609 3620 3630 3642 3654 3671 3672 Panel: Are We Effectively Preparing Our Students to be Certified Analytics Professionals Russell Cheng, Peter Haas, Stewart Robi nson, Lee Schruben, Theresa M. Roeder Innovations in Simu lation Education I Interactive Learning of Modeling and Di screte-Events Simulation through Lego Parts JosÈ Arnaldo Barra Montevechi, Fabiano Leal, Rafa el Carvalho Miranda, T·bata Fernandes Pereira Challenges in Teaching Modeling and Simulation Online Osman Balci, Kirby Deater-Deckard, Anderson Norton Teaching Simulation to Ten Thousand Students - American-European Cooperation and Perspectives Ingolf Stahl, Richard G. Born, Henry Herper Innovations in Simulation Education II Simulated Competitions to Aid Tactical Skill Acquisiton Alexandre R. M. Feitosa, Alexandre I. Direne, Wilson da Silva, Fabiano Silva, Luis Bona An Experiment in Teaching Operations Management to Sixth Graders Theresa M. Roeder, Karen N. Roeder Simulation Education in a Variety of Settings Operations Research and Simulation in Ma sterís Degrees: A Case Study Regarding Different Universities in Spain Alex Grasas, Angel A. Juan, Helena Ramalhinho Perspectives on Teaching Simulation in a College of Business Robert M. Saltzman, Theresa M. Roeder MASM Scheduling Two-Stage Lot Scheduling with Limited Waiting Time Constraints and Distinct Due Dates Tae-Sun Yu, Hyun-Jung Kim, Chanhwi Jung, Tae-Eog Lee Scheduling Maintenance Tasks with Time-Dependent Synchronization Constraints by a CP Modeling Approach Jan Lange, Gerald Weigert, Andreas Klemmt, Peter Doherr Study on Multi-Objective Optimization For Parallel Batch Machine Scheduling Using Variable Neighbourhood Search Robert Kohn, Oliver Rose, Christoph Laroque MASM Keynote Impacts of Imminent Changes in the Semiconductor Industry Julian Richards Quality & Supply Chain Management Quality Risk Analysis at Sampling Stations Crossed by One Monitored Product and an Unmonitored Flow Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 25 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


3684 3696 3707 3719 3731 3745 3756 3766 3777 3789 3796 3806 3818 3829 Anna Rotondo, John Geraghty, Paul Young Skipping Algorithms for Defect Inspection Using a Dynamic Control Strategy in Semiconductor Manufactoring Gloria Luz Rodriguez Verjan, StÈphane DauzËre-PÈrËs, Sylvain Housseman, Jacques Pinaton A Heuristic to Support Make-to-Stock Assemble-to-Order, and Make-to-Order Decisions in Semico nductor Supply Chains Lisa Forstner, Lars Moench Production and Capacity Planning Qualification Management with Batch Size Constraint Mehdi Rowshannahad, StÈphane DauzËre-PÈrËs Modeling Complex Processability Constraints in High-Mix Semiconductor Manufacturing Ahmed Ben Amira, Guillaume Lepelletier, Philippe Via lletelle, StÈphane DauzËre-PÈrËs, Claude Yugma Philippe LalevÈe A Comparison of Production Planning Formulations with Exogenous Cycle Time Estimates Using a Large-Scale Wafer Fab Model Baris Kacar, Lars Moench, Reha Uzsoy Dispatching Rules Practical Assessment of a Combined Dispatching Policy at a High-Mix Low-Volume Asic Facility Mike Giﬂrau, Oliver Rose Learning-Based Adaptive Dispatching Method for Batch Processing Machines Li Li, Long Chen, Hui Xu, Lu Chen An Integrated Approach to Real Time Dispatching Rules Analysis at Seagate Technology Daniel Muller, Madhav Kidambi, Brian Gowling, Joel Peterson, Tina O'Donnell Cycle Time Management Cycle Time Variance Minimization for WIP Balance Approaches in Wafer Fabs Zhugen Zhou, Oliver Rose Estimating Wafer Processing Cycle Time Using An Improved G/G/m Queue Roland E.A. Schelasin The Effectiveness of Variability Reduction in Decreasing Wafer Fabrication Cycle Time Israel Tirkel Automated Material Handling Systems Methodology to Evaluate the Impact of AMHS Design Characteristics on Operational Fab Performance Gabriel Gaxiola, Eric Christensen, Detlef Pabst, David Wizelman Analyzing the Impact of Key Parameters of Vehicle Management Policies in a Unified AMHS Ahmed Ben Chaabane, StÈphane DauzËre-PÈrËs, Claude Yugma, Lionel RulliËre, Gilles Lamiable Optimization of AMHS Design for a Semi conductor Foundry Fab by using Simulation Modeling Jacky Tung, Tina Sheen, Merlin Kao, C.H. Chen Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 26 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


3840 3850 3858 3866 3879 3891 3905 3912 3913 3914 3915 3916 3917 3918 Simulation Modeling and Analysis FAB Simulation with Recipe Arrangement of Tools Sangchul Park A Simulation Study on Line Management Policies with Special Focus on Bottleneck Machines Lixin Wang, Vinoth Chandrasekaran Automatic Model Verification for Semiconductor Manufacturing Simulation Boon Ping Gan, Peter Lendermann, Wolfgang Scholl, Marcin Mosinski, Patrick Preuss Modeling Techniques for Various Wafer Fab Problems A Novel Simulation Methodolog y for Modeling Cluster Tools Emrah Cimren, Robert Havey, DongJin Kim Advanced Secondary Resource Control in Semiconductor Lithography Areas: From Theory to Practice Dirk Doleschal, Andreas Klemmt, Gerald Weigert, Frank Lehmann Automated Planning, Execution and Evalua tion of Simulati on Experiments of Semiconductor AMHS Thomas Wagner, Clemens Schwenke Germar Schneider, Klaus Kabitzsch Prediction of Product Layer Cycle Time Using Data Mining MIchael Hassoun Industrial Case Study Supply Chain I A Stochastic Simulation Model of a Continuous Value Chain Operation with Feedback Streams and Optimization Gerrit Streicher Using Simulation for Potash Mining Operations Improvement Andrey Malykhanov, Vitaliy Chernenko Stochastic Simulation Techniques Applied Stamping Industry and Metal Artifacts of the Industrial Pole of Manaus PIM Stones Machado J˙nior, Mota Edjair Supply Chain II Simulation of Copper Concentr ate Transportation in Chile Pablo Senosiain, Pedro Gazmuri, Pedro Halcartegaray Independent Verification & Validation of Integrated Supply-Chain Network Simulation and Optimization Models Soroosh Gholami, Hessam Sarjoughian, Gary Godding, Victor Chang, Daniel Peters Public Health I Simulation Based Clinical Trial Designs Fei Chen Modeling the Impact of Antiretroviral Drugs for HIV Treatment and Prevention in Resource-Limited Settings Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 27 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


3919 3920 3921 3922 3923 3924 3925 See page 1661 See page 1917 3926 See page 2227 See page 1824 See page 3121 Robert Glaubius, Greg Hood, Ume L. Abbas Projecting Prison Populations with SASÆ Simulation Studio Jeffrey D. Day, Bahadir Aral, Emily Lada, Ginny M. Hevener, Tamara R. Flinchum Public Health II Ensuring the Overall Performance of a New Hospital Facility through Discrete Event Simulation Franck Fontanili, Matthieu Lauras, Elyes Lamine Healthcare Policy Re-shaping using Web-based System Dynamics Konstantinos Domdouzis, Peter Lacey, Darren Lodge, Simon J.E. Taylor Modeling Inventory Requirements to Opti mize Supply Chain Management in Public Healthcare Facilities Amy K. Pitts, Paul Blessner, Bill A. Olson Manufacturing & Production Honda's Black Box Simulation Tool Nicholas Allen Print Production Designer: Answering Commercial/Industrial Print Production What-Ifs using Simulation-as-a-Service Sunil Kothari, Jun Zeng, Gary Dispoto PhD Colloquium PhD Colloquium Keynote Address InfoSymbiotics/DDDAS: From Bi g Data to New Capabilities Frederica Darema Doctoral Colloquium Presentations I Exploration of Purpose for Multi-Method Simulation in the Context of Social Phenomena Representation Mariusz Balaban Promoting Green Internet Computing throughout Simulation-Optimization Scheduling Algorithms Guillem Cabrera Parallel Simulation of Large Population Dynamics Cristina MontaÒola-Sales An Agent-Based Simulation of a Tuberculosis Epidemic: Understanding the Timing of Transmission and Impact of Household Contact Tracing Parastu Kasaie A System Dynamics Approach for Poul try Operation to Achieve Additional Benefits Mohammad Shamsuddoha Uncertainty Modeling and Simulation of Settlement Impacts in Mechanized Tunneling Tobias Rahm Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 28 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


3928 See page 2362 See page 1179 3930 See page 2172 3932 See page 957 See page 1004 3934 See page 631 3936 See page 701 See page 3215 See page 2299 3938 See page 3522 Capacity Management and Patient Scheduling in an Outpatient Clinic Using Discrete Event Simulation Gokce Akin Improving Patient Length-Of-Stay in Emergency Department Through Dynamic Queue Management Kar Way Tan A DSM-Based Multi-Paradigm Simulation Modeling Approach for Complex Systems Xiaobo Li An Integrated Simulation, Markov De cision Processes and Game Theoretic Framework for Analysis of Supply Chain Competitions Dong Xu Doctoral Colloquium Presentations II A Balanced Sequential Design Strategy for Global Surrogate Modeling Prashant Singh Bootstrapping and Conditional Simulation in Kriging: Better Confidence Interval and Optimization Ehsan Mehdad An Adaptive Radial Basis Function Method using Weighted Improvement Yibo Ji Population Model-based Optimizati on with Sequential Monte Carlo Xi Chen Stochastic Pi-Calculus Based Modeling and Simulation Language for Antibacterial Surfaces Vishakha Sharma Optimal Learning with Non-Gaussian Rewards Zi Ding Agent Heterogeneity in Social Networ k Formation: An Agent-based Approach Xiaotian Wang Comparing Optimal Convergence Rate of Stochastic Mesh and Least Squares Method for Berm udan Option Pricing Ankush Agarwal A Discrete Event Simulation Model of Asphalt Paving Operations Ramzi Labban Doctoral Colloquium Presentations III The GAP-DRG Model: Simulation of Outpatient Care for Comparison of Different Reimbursement Schemes Patrick Einzinger The Application of Macroergonomics an d Simulation to Improve Control of Healthcare Acquired Infections Jose M. Jimenez Simulation-Based Robust Optimization for Complex Truck-Shovel Systems in Surface Coal Mines Saisrinivas Nageshwaraniyer Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 29 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


See page 3059 3940 3942 See page 66 3944 3946 See page 1938 See page 1068 3948 See page 1431 See page 543 See page 992 See page 3684 See page 577 3950 Exploration of the Effect of Workers Influence Network on Their Absence Behavior Using Agent-Based Modeling and Simulation Seungjun Ahn Combining Simulation and Integer Programming IP Techniques to Achieve Realistic Optimality Ahmed Elfituri Validation of an Agent-Based Model of Aircraft Carrier Flight Deck Operations Jason C. Ryan A Modular Simulation Model for Asse ssing Interventions for Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms Christoph Urach Improving Performance of SMEís Using SCOR and AHP Methodology Madani Alomar A Systems Dynamics Approach to Support Prospective Planning of Interventions to Improve Chronic Kidney Disease Care Hyojung Kang Doctoral Colloquium Presentations IV An effective proposal distribution for sequential Monte Carlo methods-based wildfire data assimilation Haidong Xue Hybridized Optimization Approaches to the Scheduling of Multi-Period Mixed-Btu Natural Gas Products Michael A. Bond Efficient Learning of Donor Retention Strategies for the American Red Cross Bin Han REDSim: A Spatial Agent-Based Simu lation For Studying Emergency Departments Ana Paula Centeno Generalized Integrated Brownian Fields for Simulation Metamodeling Peter Salemi Cumulative Weighting Optimi zation: The Discrete Case Kun Lin Skipping Algorithms for Defect Inspection Using a Dynamic Control Strategy in Semiconductor Manufacturing Gloria Luz Rodriguez Verjan Applying a Splitting Technique to Estimate Electrical Grid Reliability Wander Wadman Poster Madness General Simulation Applications Analyzing the Main and First Order Effects of Operational Policies on the Warehouse Productivity Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 30 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


3952 3954 3956 3958 3960 3961 3963 3965 3967 3969 3971 3972 3974 3976 3978 3980 3982 3984 3986 Aida Huerta, Stefano Brizi Manual Work Analysis and Simulation System Framework for Performance Improvement in Manned Assembly Line Won Hwam Learning Primary Feature in Compressive Sampling Space: A Sparse Representation Study Yanan Zhang, JianDong Ding, Feng Jin, Wenjun Yin, Zhibo Zhu The Compliance Costs of IRS Post-Filing Processes Ronald H. Hodge II Concurrent Simulations Of Thermal Radiation In Plasmas Spiros Thanasoulas, Demetrios Pliakis Improving Traffic Flow in a Virtual City where All Control Devices have been Replaced by Self-Regulatory Systems Sofia Robles, Henry Gasparin Virtual Reality Operator Training System for Continuous Casting Process in Steel Industry Jinhwi Lee, Jayoung Choi, Yongsu Kim Duopoly Price Competition with Switching Cost and Bounded Rational Customers Mateusz Zawisza, Bogumil Kaminski Applying a Splitting Technique to Estimate Electrical Grid Reliability Wander Wadman Projecting Network Loading of Correlat ed Traffic Streams under High Growth Timothy Wetzel, Timothy Lortz, Ashleigh Thompson Simulation Versus Constraint Based Graphical Modeling of Construction Processes Ian Flood Constraint Simulation - Identification of Important Construction Constraints Sebastian Hollermann, Hans-Joachim Bargst‰dt Service Operations Simulati on and Agent-based Models Performance Evaluation in a Laboratory Medicine Unit Adriano Torri, Marcella Rovani Behavioral Influence Assessment for Organizational Cooperation in Cyber Security Asmeret Bier Estimating the Effects of Heterogeneous Competition in an Agent-based Ecological Model Using GIS Raster Color Michael S. Crawford, Stephe n C. Davies, Alan Griffith Intelligent Selection of a Server Among Parallel Identical Servers Godwin Tennyson Simulation of Canadian Nanote chnology Innovation Network Nuha Zamzami FUSE: A Multi-Agent Simulation Environment Kensuke Kuramoto Bed Blockage in Irish Hospitals System Dynamics Methodology Wael Rashwan, Mohamed Ragab, Waleed Abo-Hamad, Amr Arisha Simulate Skill Mix to Validate a Resource Planning System Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 31 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


3988 3990 3992 3994 3996 3998 4000 4002 4004 4006 4008 4010 4012 4014 4016 4018 4020 4022 Pu Huang Agent Heterogeneity in Social Networ k Formation: An Agent-based Approach Xiaotian Wang The Role of Block Allocation and Surgery Duration Predictability on Operating Room Utilization Kevin Taaffe, Rebecca Weiss Understanding the Trade-Offs in a Call Center David A. Munoz, Marie C. Brutus Modeling Social Factors of Oral Health Equity for Older Adults Sara Metcalf, Hua Wang, Susan Kum, Zhu Jin, Peng Wang, Michael Widener, Carol Kunzel, Stephen Marshall, Mary Northridge Managing Patient Flow at a New York City Federally Qualified Health Center Pravin Santhanam, Hema Santhanam Simulation Modeling Tools and Analysis Methodologies Elapsed-Time-Sensitive DEVS for Model Checking Hae Young Lee Size Measurement of DEVS Models for SBA Effectiveness Evaluation Hae Young Lee, Hyung-Jong Kim DEVSMO: An Ontology of DEVS Model Representation for Model Reuse Yunping Hu, Jun Xiao, Hao Zhao, Gang Rong Integrated Policy Simulation in Complex System-of-Systems Ali Mostafavi A Hybrid Search Algorithm with Optimal Computing Budget Allocation for Resource Allocation Problem James T. Lin, Chun-Chih Chiu Towards a General Foundation for Formalism-Specific Instrumentation Languages Johannes Sch¸tzel, Roland Ewald, Adelinde M. Uhrmacher Towards Composing ML-Rules Models Danhua Peng, Alexander Steiniger, Tobias Helms, Adelinde M. Uhrmacher DYANA: HLA-based Distributed Real-tim e Embedded Systems Simulation Tool Daniil Zorin, Vitaly Antonenko, Evgeny Chemeritsk iy, Alevtina Glonina, Vasily Pashkov, Vladislav Podymov, Konstantin Savenkov, Ruslan Smeliansky Dmitry Volkanov, Vladimir Zakharov, Igor Konnov Integration of 3D Laser Scanning Into Traditional DES Project Methodology Jonatan Berglund, Erik Lindskog, Bjˆrn Johansson, Johan Vallhagen Using a Frequency Domain Approach on Model Comparison Falk Stefan Pappert, Tobias Uhlig An Adaptive Radial Basis Function Method using Weighted Improvement Yibo Ji A Trust Region-Based Algorithm for Co ntinuous Optimization via Simulation Satyajith Amaran, Nikolaos Sahinidis, Bikram Sharda, Scott Bury Co-Simulation Using Specification and Description Language Pau Fonseca i Casas, Jaume Figueras Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 32 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


4024 4025 4026 4037 4052 4062 4063 4064 4065 4073 4085 4086 4087 Vendor Track I Vendor Presentations FlexSim: Focusing on Problem Solving Bill Nordgren Recent Advances in Emulate3D ñ Faster Execution, Easier Build Bernard Brooks, Adam Davidson, Ian McGregor Vendor Presentations Introduction to SAS Simulation Studio Edward P. Hughes, Emily K. Lada, Phillip Meanor, Hong Chen AutoModÆ ñ Modeling Complex Manufacturing, Distributi on, and Logistics Systems for Over 30 Years Daniel Muller Vendor Presentations Introduction to Simio Renee M. Thiesing, C. Dennis Pegden Energy Efficiency Optimization in Plant Production Systems Michael Rouman Vendor Presentations Running Distributed Simulations Over Many Cores in Julia Michael Bean Arena 14.5 - Review of New Features Nancy Zupick Vendor Presentations ExtendSim 9 David Krahl Vendor Presentations Recent Innovations in Simio Renee M. Thiesing, C. Dennis Pegden ProModel Takes Predictive Analytics to the Cloud Bruce Gladwin Vendor Track II Vendor Presentations Forward Vision - Operations Intelligence Joseph Hugan Applications of Arena in Industry Nancy Zupick Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 33 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


4088 4089 4101 4102 4103 4105 4106 4107 4108 Vendor Presentations SIMUL8 Corporation - Live Demonstration and Software Preview Matthew Hobson-Rohrer Multi-Method Modeling Andrei Borshchev Vendor Presentations The Arithmetic of Uncertainty a Cure for the Flaw of Averages Sam Savage War Stories From the Front Line Martin Franklin, Saurabh Parakh Jeffrey Brelsford, Amy Greer Vendor Presentations Simulation Based Planning Scheduling System: MozArt Keyhoon Ko, Byung H. Kim, Seock K. Yoo Vendor Presentations Integrated Simulation, Data Mining and Optimization in Microsoft Excel Daniel H. Fylstra AnyLogic 7 - New Release Presentation Andrei Borshchev Vendor Presentations MATLAB ñ An Environment for Simulation and Data Analytics Teresa Hubscher-Younger Take Your Process Off the Page with SIMUL8 Simulation Software Matthew Hobson-Rohrer Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/54957 WSC/XPlore CD/2013_WSC_CFP13WSC-CDR 34 of 34 12/23/2013 10:02 AM 


            





A Parallel Hybrid Genetic Algorithm on Cloud Computing for the Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows 2467 AndrÈ Siqueira Ruela, Frederico Gadelha Guimar„es Ricardo Augusto Rabelo Oliveira, Brayan Neves, Vicente Peixoto Amorim and Larissa Maiara Fraga A Hybrid Technique Using Multi-objective Particle Swarm Optimization and Random Forests for PROBE Attacks Detection in a Network 2473 Arif Jamal Malik and Farrukh Aslam Khan Innovative Technologies and Applications in Computer Intelligence - C04-02 Strategy Selection by Reinforcement Learning for Multi-car Elevator Systems 2479 Masaki Ikuta, Kenichi Takahashi, and Michimasa Inaba Deep Belief Network for Modeling Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning Policies 2485 Predrag D. Djurdjevic and Manfred Huber Artificial Neural Network Analysis of Twin Tunnelling-Induced Ground Settlements 2492 Seyed Amin Khatami, Alireza Mirhabibi, Abbas Khosravi, and Saeid Nahavandi A New Approach Based on Support Vector Machine for Solving Stochastic Optimization 2498 Seyed Amin Khatami, Abbas Khosravi, and Saeid Nahavandi Neuroevolution by Particle Swarm Optimization with Adaptive Input Selection for Controlling Platform-Game Agent 2504 Akira Hara, Jun-ichi Kushida, Koji Kitao, and Tetsuyuki Takahama Profiling Student Learning Styles with Multilayer Perceptron Neural Networks 2510 Annabel Latham, Keeley Crockett, and David Mclean Intelligent Learning in Control Systems - S02-01 Design of Data-Oriented GMDH-Based Controller 2516 S. Wakitani, G. Martins, and T. Yamamoto Integrated Modeling for Intelligent Battery Thermal Management 2522 Zhen Liu and Han-Xiong Li Embedded Design of an Emotion-Aware Music Player 2528 Carlos A. Cervantes and Kai-Tai Song Direct Adaptive Fuzzy-Wavelet-Neural-Network Control for Electric Two-Wheeled Robotic Vehicles 2534 Ching-Chih Tsai and Ching-Chih Tsai 
xli 


Model-Based Indirect Learning Method Based on Dyna-Q Architecture 2540 Kao-Shing Hwang, Wei-Cheng Jiang, Yu-Jen Chen, and Wei-Han Wang A System-Level Approach for Model-Based Verification of Distributed Software Systems 2545 Seyedehmehrnaz Mireslami and Behrouz H. Far Medical Image and Signal Processing - S22-03 Right Ventricle Segmentation by Temporal Information Constrained Gradient Vector Flow 2551 Xulei Yang, Si Yong Yeo, Yi Su, Calvin Lim, Min Wan, Liang Zhong and Ru San Tan An Early Development of Force Distribution Sensor Using Pressure-Sensitive Conductive Rubber for Soft Tissue Balance in Total Knee Arthroplasty 2556 Mohd Hanafi Mat Som, Kouki Nagamune, Takashi Kamiya, Shogo Kawaguchi Tomoyuki Matsumoto, Ryosuke Kuroda, and Masahiro Kurosaka An Evaluation Method of Force Concentration in PS Type of Total Knee Arthroplasty with Force Distribution Measurement System 2561 Takashi Kamiya, Shogo Kawaguchi, Mohd Hanafi Mat Som, Kouki Nagamune Tomoyuki Matsumoto, Ryosuke Kuroda, and Masaliiro Kurosaka An Improved Binarisation Algorithm for Nailfold Capillary Skeleton Extraction 2565 Niraj P. Doshi, Gerald Schaefer, and Shao Ying Zhu Production of the Grounds for Melanoma Classification Using Adaptive Fuzzy Inference Neural Network 2570 Yuji Ikuma and Hitoshi lyatomi Approaches to General Purpose GPU Acceleration of Digital Signal Processing in Optical Coherence Tomography Systems 2576 K.I. Kapinchev, F.R.M. Barnes, A. Bradu, and A.Gh. Podoleanu Smart Technologies for Civil Applications of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles - H11-01 Doing the Right Thing: Collision Avoidance for Autonomous Air Vehicles 2581 Chinmay Mishra, Mitul Mehta, Elias J. Griffith, and Jason F. Ralph Equivalence of BRISK Descriptors for the Registration of Variable Bit-Depth Aerial Imagery 2587 Elias J. Griffith, Yuan Chi, Michael Jump, and Jason F. Ralph Invariant Observer Design of a RGB-D Aided Inertial System for MAV in GPS-Denied Environments 2593 Dachuan Li, Qing Li, Nong Cheng, Jingyan Song, Qinfan Wu, and Liangwen Tang 
xlii 


Safer Flying Using an Immune-Inspired Adaptive Health Monitoring System 2600 Maizura Mokhtar and Joe Howe Scheduling UAV Surveillance Tasks, Lessons Learned from Trials with Users 2606 Jeremy Baxter, Scott Findlay, Martin Paxton, Andrew Berry, and Jon Platts QinetiQ SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-15 Gastric Lymph Node Cancer Detection of Multiple Features Classifier for Pathology Diagnosis Support System 2611 Takumi Ishikawa, Junko Takahashi, Hiroshi Takemura, Hiroshi Mizoguchi and Takeshi Kuwata Modelling Prey in Discrete Time Predator-Prey Systems 2617 Rory Mullan, David H. Glass, and Mark McCartney A Measuring and Analysis Method of Coupled Range of Motion of the Human Hands 2623 Natsuki Miyata, Yuki Shimizu, and Yusuke Maeda Multi-objective Optimization Using Pareto GA for Gene-Selection from Microarray Data for Disease Classification 2629 Goutam Chakraborty and Basabi Chakraborty Grasp Database That Covers Variation of Contact Region Usage 2635 Natsuki Miyata, Takayoshi Hironom, and Yusuke Maeda An Empirical Investigation of Virtual Screening 2641 Amir Ali Rafati-Afshar and Abdelhamid Bouchachia SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-16 Transition Learning between Balanced Ensemble Learning and Negative Correlation Learning 2647 Yong Liu, Qiangfu Zhao, and Neil Yen Profit Sharing That Can Learn Deterministic Policy for POMDPs Environments by Kohonen Feature Map Associative Memory 2651 Daichi Koma and Yuko Osana Using Genetic Algorithm to Improve Classification Accuracy on Imbalanced Data 2659 Jair Cervantes, Xiaoou Li, and Wen Yu An Anomaly Analysis Method Based on Morphological Features 2665 Xiangzeng Kong, Yaxin Bi, and David H. Glass Learning Multi-level Local Phase Relationship for Single Image Resolution Enhancement 2671 Saibabu Arigela, Vijayan K. Asari, and Maher B. Qumsiyeh 
xliii 


Feature Selection by Iterative Block Addition and Block Deletion 2677 Shigeo Abe SMC: Human-Machine - HM-08 Development of Humanoid Robot Simulator for Gait Learning by Using Particle Swarm Optimization 2683 Ping-Huan Kuo, Ya-Fang Ho, Kai-Fan Lee, Li-Heng Tai, and Tzuu-Hseng S. Li Multi-view Facial Expression Recognition Using Parametric Kernel Eigenspace Method Based on Class Features 2689 Woo-han Yun, Dohyung Kim, Chankyu Park, and Jaehong Kim Automatic Realtime User Performance-Driven Avatar Animation 2694 Stephanie Behrens, Ayoub Al-Hamadi, Eicke Redweik, and Robert Niese Advanced Human Affect Visualization 2700 Isabelle Hupont, Sandra Baldassarri, Eva Cerezo, and Rafael Del-Hoyo Gestic-Based Human Machine Interface for Robot Control 2706 Michael Tornow, Ayoub Al-Hamadi, and Vinzenz Borrmann Human Control of Leader-Based Swarms 2712 Phillip Walker, Saman Amirpour Amraii, Michael Lewis, Nilanjan Chakraborty and Katia Sycara SMC: Systems Science - SYS-15 A Game-Theoretic Social Model for Multiagent Systems 2718 Wynn C. Stirling A Distributed and Automatic Negotiation Protocol for Resource Allocation in the Management of Traffic Accidents 2724 M. Prades Farron, Luis A. Garcia, Vicente R. Tomas, and M. Capdevila Applicability of Bio-inspired and Graph-Theoretic Algorithms for the Design of Complex Fault-Tolerant Graphs 2730 Matthias Becker, Florian Schmidt, and Helena Szczerbicka Analysis of Fuzzy Agents Interactions and Fuzzy Agents Roles within a Collaborative Design Platform 2735 Alain-JÈrÙme FougÈres and Egon Ostrosi Requester vs. Helper-Initiated Protocols for Mutual Assistance in Agent Teamwork 2741 Narek Nalbandyan, Jernej Polajnar, Denish Mumbaiwala, Desanka Polajnar and Omid Alemi 
xliv 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-16 Energetically Optimal Gait Transition Velocities of a Quadruped Robot 2747 Iris Shmue and Raziel Riemer Cluster Synchronization of Predator Prey Robots 2753 Sumona Mukhopadhyay and Henry Leung Matrix Transfer Protocol a Unified Communication Framework for Distributed Modules in Cognitive Robotics 2759 Gerd-J¸rgen Giefing INHA: Localization of Mobile Robots Based on Feature Matching with a Single Camera 2765 Jaehong Lee, Xuenan Cui, Seungjun Lee, Hakil Kim, and Hyoungrae Kim A Tabletop Objects Observation Method from Mobile Robot Using Kinect Sensor 2771 Takuro Egawa, Ippei Samejima, Yuma Nihei, Satoshi Kagami and Hiroshi Mizoguchi Path Planning for Mobile Robots Based on Improved Ant Colony Optimization 2777 Chen-Chien Hsu, Ru-Yu Hou, and Wei-Yen Wang Collaborative Manufacturing and Supply Chains - H15-01 A Review of Complex Systems Technologies for Supply Chain Risk Management 2783 LI Zhengping, Tan Puay Siew, Yee Qi Ming Gabriel, Nguyen Quoc Chinh Ong Yew Soon, and Chen Xianshun A Novel Two-Level Genetic Algorithm for Integrated Process Planning and Scheduling 2790 Liang Wan, Xinyu Li, Liang Gao, Xiaoyu Wen, and Wenwen Wang Application of Interval Theory and Genetic Algorithm for Uncertain Integrated Process Planning and Scheduling 2796 Wenwen Wang, Xinyu Li, Liang Gao, Xiaoyu Wen, and Liang Wan Integrated Iterated Local Search for the Permutation Flowshop Problem with Tardiness Minimization 2802 Tian Chen and Xiaoping Li Shuffled Frog Leaping Algorithm for a Bi-objective No-Idle Permutation Flow Shop 2808 Yamin Wang and Xiaoping Li MapReduce Based Method for Big Data Semantic Clustering 2814 Jie Yang and Xiaoping Li 
xlv 


Learning-Assisted Intelligent Scheduling System 2820 Ana Madureira, Jo„o Paulo Pereira, and Ivo Pereira Iterative Combinatorial Auction for Carrier Collaboration in Logistics Services 2826 Hamidreza Mehrizi and Chun Wang Computational Awareness - H04-01 Induction of High Performance Neural Networks Based on Decision Boundary Making 2831 Yuya Kaneda, Qiangfu Zhao, Yong Liu, and Neil Y. Yen Feature Point Detection in Image Morphing Based Steganography 2837 Qiangfu Zhao, Yutaro Minakawa, Yong Liu, and Neil Y. Yen Computational Awareness in a Tactile-Responsive Humanoid Robot Comedian 2843 Paul Kaefer, Kevin Germino, Dustin Venske, and Andrew B. Williams A Change Detection Method of Arguing Points by Factor Analysis for Case Method Support 2849 Masaki Samejima and Keiichi Hamada Facebook Watchdog: A Research Agenda for Detecting Online Grooming and Bullying Activities 2854 Marlies Rybnicek, Rainer Poisel, and Simon Tjoa Agent-Based Simulation for Investigating Signaling Effects in Markets with Asymmetric Information 2860 Tadahiko Murata and Du Nisuo Explore New Eye Tracking and Gaze Locating Methods 2866 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, Joe Eyles, and Honghai Liu Computational Intelligence for Ubiquitous and Pervasive Computing - C08-01 An Interval Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based System for Customised Knowledge Delivery within Pervasive E-Learning Platforms 2872 Khalid Almohammadi and Hani Hagras A Big Bang-Big Crunch Optimization for a Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based Human Behaviour Recognition System in Intelligent Environments 2880 Bo Yao, Hani Hagras, Daniyal Alghazzawi, and Mohammed J. Alhaddad A Computing with Words Framework for Ambient Intelligence 2887 Aysenur Bilgin, Hani Hagras, Areej Malibari, Daniyal Alghazzawi and J. Mohammed 
xlvi 


Social Feedback in Display Ecosystems 2893 Bernhard Anzengruber, Gabriella Castelli, Alberto Rosi, Alois Ferscha and Franco Zambonelli Improved Semantic-Based Human Interaction Understanding Using Context-Based Knowledge 2899 Kamrad Khoshhal Roudposhti and Jorge Dias A Brief Introduction to Classification for Smart Grid 2905 Chun-Wei Tsai, Alexander Pelov, Ming-Chao Chiang, Chu-Sing Yang and Tzung-Pei Hong Recognizing Human Actions by a Bag of Visual Words 2910 Pasquale Foggia, Gennaro Percannella, Alessia Saggese, and Mario Vento A Novel Two-Layer Hierarchical Differential Evolution Algorithm for Global Optimization 2916 Yinzhi Zhou, Xinyu Li, and Liang Gao Innovations in Intelligent Computation and Applications C15-01 Facial Skin Beautification Using Region-Aware Mask 2922 Lingyu Liang and Lianwen Jin Conversation System Based on Computational Intelligence for Robot Partner Using Smart Phone 2927 Jinseok Woo and Naoyuki Kubota Mining Sequential Purchasing Behaviors from Customer Transaction Databases 2933 Show-Jane Yen, Jia-Yuan Gu, and Yue-Shi Lee Student Engagement Modeling Using Bayesian Networks 2939 Choo-Yee Ting, Wei-Nam Cheah, and Chiung Ching Ho Uniform Cellular Automata Linear Rules for Edge Detection 2945 Selman Uguz, Ugur Sahin, and Ferat Sahin Intelligent Network Computing and Applications - C07-01 Dealing with Unfair Ratings 2951 Xinfeng Ye Network Information Flow Control: Proof of Concept 2957 Alwaleed Alghothami and Florian Kammuller Homogeneity Based Blind Noisy Image Quality Assessment 2963 Xiaotong Huang, Li Chen, Jing Tian, Xiaolong Zhang, and Xiaowei Fu 
xlvii 


Performance Evaluation of Self-Configured Two-Tier Heterogeneous Cellular Networks 2968 Nien-Tsu Chou, Shih-Hao Lin, Shin-Ming Cheng, and Shih-Hao Chang Metasynthesis and Complex Systems - S09-02 A Computational Study for Feature Selection on Customer Credit Evaluation 2973 Jun Huang, Haibo Wang, Wei Wang, and Zhibin Xiong Distribution of Node Characteristics in Transfractal Network Systems and Additive Scale Invariance 2979 Ying Tan, Hong Luo, and Shou-Li Peng The Decision of Price Risk of Portfolio in Inventory Financing 2985 Juan He, Jian Wang, and Xianglin Jiang A Consensus Model for Multiple Attribute Group Decision Making Problems Based on Interval Fuzzy Number 2991 Zhiying LV, Tianmin Huang, Liwei Zheng, and Ying Liang SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-17 Topology Preserving Feature Extraction with Multiswarm Optimization 2997 Thomas A. Runkler and James C. Bezdek Sparse Logistic Discriminant Analysis 3003 Takio Kurita, Kenji Watanabe, and Akinori Hidaka Discriminant Multi-component Face Analysis 3009 Hongli Liu, Weifeng Liu, Liping Dong, and Yanjiang Wang A Hidden Markov Model with Abnormal States for Detecting Stock Price Manipulation 3014 Yi Cao, Yuhua Li, Sonya Coleman, Ammar Belatreche, and T.M. McGinnity Novelty Detection Using Level Set Methods with Adaptive Boundaries 3020 Xuemei Ding, Yuhua Li, Ammar Belatreche, and Liam P. Maguire Automatic Crack Detection and Segmentation Using a Hybrid Algorithm for Road Distress Analysis 3026 Jinshan Tang and Yanliang Gu A Robust Two Signature Descriptor with Orientation Bins and Colour Codes for Enhanced Feature Matching 3031 Saad Ali Imran and Nabil Aouf Structured Sparse Representation Visual Tracking Using Bayes Classifier 3036 Weiguang Li, Yueen Hou, Aiqiong Rong, Sibo Quan, Huidong Lou and Aihua Huang 
xlviii 


SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-18 Some Consequences of the Linear Approximation of the Stochastic Context-Free Calculus 3042 Marco Carpentier On Identifying Authors with Style 3048 Lauren M. Stuart, Saltanat Tazhibayeva, Amy R. Wagoner, and Julia M. Taylor Pairwise Learning to Rank for Search Query Correction 3054 Antonin Novak and Jan Sedivy A Hash Table Approach for Large Scale Perceptual Anchoring 3060 Andreas Persson and Amy Loutfi Clause Anaphora Resolution for Japanese Demonstrative Determiner Based on Semantic Similarity between Different Part-of-Speech 3067 Yukino Ikegami, Ernesto Damiani, Akihiro Urano, and Setsuo Tsuruta Path Model Integration Method for Structural Equation Modeling by OR and Probability Concepts 3073 Rikuto Kunimoto and Ryosuke Saga Recognising User Identity in Twitter Social Networks via Text Mining 3079 Sara Keretna, Ahmad Hossny, and Doug Creighton SMC: Human-Machine - HM-09 Operability Improvement for Myoelectric Prosthetic Hand Using Brain Machine Interface Identification of Eight Forearm Motions Based on Myoelectric Potential 3083 Kana Kuniyasu and Jun Ishikawa Towards the Classification of Single-Trial Event-Related Potentials Using Adapted Wavelets and Particle Swarm Optimization 3089 Alejandro Gonzalez, Isao Nambu, Haruhide Hokari, Masahiro Iwahashi and Yasuhiro Wada Development of a System for Analyzing Common Laceration Generation Mechanisms 3095 Hideyuki Myouse, Tachio Takano, Koji Kitamura, Yoshinori Koizumi Yoshifumi Nishida, and Hiroshi Mizoguchi A Hand Grasped Object Segmentation Method Using Kinect Sensor and Body Dimension Database 3102 Naruyuki Hisatsuka, Ippei Samejima, Satoshi Kagami, Makiko Kouchi and Hiroshi Takemura 
xlvix 


On Modeling Human Learning in Sequential Games with Delayed Reinforcements 3108 Roi Ceren, Prashant Doshi, Matthew Meisel, Adam Goodie, and Dan Hall Analysis of Human Attention toward Context-related Images for Understanding Visual Information Processing 3114 Joo Yun Han, Yu-Bu Lee, and Sukhan Lee Ship Detection and Segmentation Using Image Correlation 3119 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, and Honghai Liu Hand Movement Trajectory Reconstruction from EEG for Brain-Computer Interface Systems 3127 Neethu Robinson, A.P. Vinod, and Cuntai Guan SMC: Systems Science - SYS-17 Model Selection with BIC and ICL Criteria for Binned Data Clustering by Bin-EM-CEM Algorithms 3133 Hani Hamdan and Jingwen Wu Vehicle Detection from UAVs by Using SIFT with Implicit Shape Model 3139 Xiyan Chen and Qinggang Meng Short-Term Anxiety Recognition Induced by Virtual Reality Exposure for Phobic People 3145 Wahida Handouzi, Choubeila Maaoui, Alain Pruski, Abdelhak Moussaoui and Yamina Bendiouis Dataset Shift Detection in Non-stationary Environments Using EWMA Charts 3151 Haider Raza, Girijesh Prasad, and Yuhua Li Intensity Rank Estimation of Facial Expressions Based on a Single Image 3157 Kuang-Yu Chang, Chu-Song Chen, and Yi-Ping Hung Integration of Online Laboratories - LMS via SCORM 3163 Ildefonso Ruano-Ruano, Juan GÛmez-Ortega, Javier G·mez-GarcÌa and Elisabet Estevez-EstÈvez Motor Inverter Fault Diagnosis Using Wavelets Neural Networks 3168 Sheng Qiang and Yingying Li Online Optimal DLQR-DFIG Control System Design via Recursive Least-Square Approach and State Heuristic Dynamic Programming for Approximate Solution of the HJB Equation 3174 Jo„o Viana da Fonseca Neto, Ernesto F.M. Ferreira, and Patricia H. Moraes Rego 
l 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-18 Unsupervised Adaptive Non-intrusive Load Monitoring System 3180 Po-An Chou and Ray-I Chang Learning Customer Behaviour under Real-Time Pricing in the Smart Grid 3186 Fan-Lin Meng, Xiao-Jun Zeng, and Qian Ma Bayesian Model Averaging of Load Demand Forecasts from Neural Network Models 3192 Saima Hassan, Abbas Khosravi, and Jafreezal Jaafar A Energy-Preserving Model for Wireless Sensors Networks Based on Heuristic Self-Organized Routing 3198 Aurelio La Corte, Alessandro Di Stefano, Marialisa Scat·, and Marco Leotta Design and Application of Smart Metering System for Micro Grid 3203 Ringo P.K. Lee, Loi Lei Lai, and Chun Sing Lai Discrete Time Modeling and Control of DC/DC Switching Converter for Solar Energy Systems 3208 S. Kazemlou and S. Mehraeen Variance-Covariance Based Weighing for Neural Network Ensembles 3214 Saima Hassan, Abbas Khosravi, and Jafreezal Jaafar Novel Dynamic Control of Power Systems with Penetration of Renewable Energy Sources in Multi-generator Framework 3220 S. Kazemlou and S. Mehraeen Intelligent Learning in Control Systems - S02-02 A Type-2 Fuzzy Cascade Control Architecture for Mobile Robots 3226 Tufan Kumbasar and Hani Hagras Adaptive Control System Based on Self-Organizing Wavelet Neural Network with H8 Tracking Performance Compensator 3232 Masanao Obayashi, Takuya Kamikariya, Shogo Uchiyama, Shogo Watada Takashi Kuremoto, Shingo Mabu, and Kunikazu Kobayashi Estimators Based on Non-squares Loss Functions to Approximate HJB-Riccati Equation Solution for DLQR Design via HDP 3238 Jonathan A. Queiroz, PatrÌcia H.M. Rego, Jo„o V.F. Neto, Cristiane da Silva Ewaldo Santana, and Allan Kardec Barros 
li 


Issues in EHR Representation, Integration, and Analysis S18-01 An Ontology for Clinical Trial Data Integration 3244 Ratnesh Sahay, Dimitrios Ntalaperas, Eleni Kamateri, Panagiotis Hasapis Oya Deniz Beyan, Marie-Pierre F. Strippoli, Christiana A. Demetriou Thomai Gklarou-Stavropoulou, Matthias Brochhausen Konstantinos Tarabanis, Thanassis Bouras, David Tian, Aristos Aristodimoux Athos Antoniadesx, Christos Georgousopoulos, Manfred Hauswirth and Stefan Decker Advancing Patient Record Safety and EHR Semantic Interoperability 3251 Konstantinos Perakis, Thanasis Bouras, Dimitris Ntalaperas Panagiotis Hasapis, Christos Georgousopoulos, Ratnesh Sahay Oya Deniz Beyan, Cristi Potlog, and Daniela Usurelu A Bayesian Association Rule Mining Algorithm 3258 David Tian, Ann Gledson, Athos Antoniades, Aristo Aristodimou Ntalaperas Dimitrios, Ratnesh Sahay, Jianxin Pan, Stavros Stivaros Goran Nenadic, Xiao-jun Zeng, and John Keane Understanding Low Back Pain Using Fuzzy Association Rule Mining 3265 Maybin K. Muyeba, Sandra Lewis, Liangxiu Han, and John A. Keane Perception: Part B - Perceptual Factors in Graphics - H08-01 Perceptual Quality Metrics for 3D Meshes: Towards an Optimal Multi-attribute Computational Model 3271 Guillaume LavouÈ, Irene Cheng, and Anup Basu Evaluation of 3D Model Segmentation Techniques Based on Animal Anatomy 3277 Nasim Hajari, Irene Cheng, Anup Basu, and Guillaume Lavou Keynote D Cybernetic Intelligent Systems - S19-01 Gender Classification Using One Half Face and Feature Selection Based on Mutual Information 3282 Juan E. Tapia and Claudio A. Perez User Modelling for Interactive Optimization Using Neural Network 3288 Vidya Bhushan Singh, Snehasis Mukhopadhyay, and Meghna Babbar-Sebens Software Programmed by Artificial Agents toward an Autonomous Development Process for Code Generation 3294 Carlos C. Insaurralde 
lii 


Pattern Detection Using a New Haralick Quaternion Color Extraction Model and Support Vector Machine Classifier 3300 Claudio A. Perez, Carlos F. Navarro, Daniel A. Schulz, Jacob A. Saravia and Carlos M. Aravena An Approach to the Synthesis of Humanoid Robot Dance Using Non-interactive Evolutionary Techniques 3305 Malachy Eaton Visual Servoing of a Quadrotor UAV for the Tracking of Linear Structured Infrastructures 3310 O. Araar and N. Aouf Acoustic Detection and Localization Enhanced by Video Analysis 3316 Riad Azzam and Nabil Aouf Human-Centered Transportation Systems - H05-01 Study of Induction and Estimation Method for Driver's Intention by Using a Driving Simulator 3322 Takashi Imamura, Tomonari Ogi, Zhong Zhang, and Tetsuo Miyake A Personalised Online Travel Time Prediction Model 3327 Zhenchen Wang and Stefan Poslad Availability of a Ship Propulsion System under Aging Effects 3333 Nobuo Mitomom, Tadatsugi Okazaki, and Tunc Aldemir Questionnaire Survey for Adapting Common Performance Conditions to Marine Accidents 3339 Kenji Yoshimura, Chihiro Nishizaki, Han Chuanfeng, Han Chuanfeng and Han Chuanfeng Research on the Implementation of Port State Control Based on Broad Sense Concept in the Integrated Management of Foreign Vessel 3344 Junjie Fu and Chi Zhou A Study on Evaluation of Safe Driving Using an In-Vehicle Data Camera 3348 Ryo Ishizaki and Masakazu Morimoto Human-Machine Interface and Haptics - H02-01 Myoelectric Controlled Prosthetic Hand with Continuous Force-Feedback Mechanism 3354 Nanao Akimichi, Kiyoshi Eguchi, and Kenji Suzuki Classifier Transferability in the Detection of Error Related Potentials from Observation to Interaction 3360 Su Kyoung Kim and Elsa Andrea Kirchner 
liii 


Suitability of Two Models of Torque Feedback for Performing a Robot-Assisted Circular Tracing Task 3366 Fernando Trejo and Yaoping Hu Experimental Studies of a Novel 6-DOF Haptic Device 3372 Zhouming Tang and Shahram Payandeh Design and Evaluation of Partial Weight-Bearing Sensor and Haptic Feedback System for Lower-Extremity Orthopedic Patients 3378 Levi DeLuke, Ying \(Jean Richard E. Fan, and John B. Morrell Producing Method of Softness Sensation by Device Vibration 3384 Atsutoshi Ikeda, Takahiro Suzuki, Jun Takamatsu, and Tsukasa Ogasawara Personalising Live Sports Video Zooming 3390 Zhenchen Wang and Stefan Poslad Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-01 Ambulatory Brain-Computer Interface in Outdoor Environment toward Indexing of Lifelog 3396 Hideaki Touyama and Kazuya Maeda On Determination of Ophthalmic Examinations Using Support Vector Machines 3402 Naotake Kamiura, Naoto Yamada, Ayumu Saitoh, Teijiro Isokawa Nobuyuki Matsui, and Hitoshi Tabuchi Evaluation of Autonomy Walk by Dynamic Foot Pressure Analysis 3408 Takahiro Takeda, Yoshitada Sakai, and Yutaka Hata Adaptive Human-Robot Interaction Based on Lag-Lead Modelling for Home-Based Stroke Rehabilitation: Novel Mechanisms for Assessment and Performance Based Adaptation of Task Difficulty 3414 Angelo Basteris and Farshid Amirabdollahian Ultrasonic Frequency Response Analysis for Quantitative Measurements in Bone Marrow Stromal Cells 3420 Naomi Yagi, Kei Kuramoto, Syoji Kobashi, Yutaka Hata, and Tomomoto Ishikawa Mining Clinical Pathway Candidates from Order History Based on the Clustering of Order Sequences 3425 Shoji Hirano and Shusaku Tsumoto 
liv 


Proactive Health Care Systems, Methodologies and Applications - H06-01 Applying Gaming Principles to Virtual Environments for Upper Extremity Therapy Games 3430 Mason E. Nixon and Ayanna M. Howard Development of an Autonomous Facial-Expression Monitoring System for Safe Work Environments 3436 Masakazu Arima, Shotaro Kii, and Kousuke Murata Using Type-2 Fuzzy Models to Detect Fall Incidents and Abnormal Gaits among Elderly 3441 Yo-Ping Huang, Wei-Heng Liu, Szu-Ying Chen, and Frode Eika Sandnes A Computer Supported Memory Aid for Copying Prescription Parameters into Medical Equipment Based on Linguistic Phrases 3447 Frode Eika Sandnes and Yo-Ping Huang Depression Diagnosis Based on Ontologies and Bayesian Networks 3452 Yue-Shan Chang, Wan-Chun Hung, and Tong-Ying Juang Towards ROS Based Multi-robot Architecture for Ambient Assisted Living 3458 Ruijiao Li, Mohammadreza A. Oskoei, and Huosheng Hu SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-19 SCGaz - A Synthetic Formal Context Generator with Density Control for Test and Evaluation of FCA Algorithms 3464 Andrei Rimsa, Mark A.J. Song, and Luis E. Z·rate An Intelligent Tutoring System for Case-Based E-Learning on Project Management 3471 Minami Otsuki and Masaki Samejima A Time-Series-Based Technology Intelligence Framework by Trend Prediction Functionality 3477 Hongshu Chen, Guangquan Zhang, and Jie Lu A Fuzzy Tree Similarity Measure and Its Application in Telecom Product Recommendation 3483 Dianshuang Wu, Guangquan Zhang, and Jie Lu Fuzzy Decision Support System for the Determination of the Set Points of Relevant Variables in the Virgin Olive Oil Elaboration Process 3489 P. Cano Marchal, D. MartÌnez Gila, J. G·mez Garcia, and J. GÛmez Ortega A Hierarchical Human Activity Recognition Framework Based on Automated Reasoning 3495 Shuwei Chen, Jun Liu, Hui Wang, and Juan Carlos Augusto 
lv 


Entity Conceptualization and Understanding Based on Web-Scale Knowledge Bases 3500 Yi Zeng, Hongwei Hao, and Bo Xu SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-20 Sequential Extraction by Using Two Types of Crisp Possibilistic Clustering 3505 Yukihiro Hamasuna and Yasunori Endo Comparative Evaluation of Batch and Online Distance Metric Learning Approaches Based on Margin Maximization 3511 Adri·n PÈrez-Suay, Francesc J. Ferri, Miguel Arevalillo-Herr·ez and Jes˙s V. Albert Gamification of the Optimization Problem and Multi-point Type Optimization Methods 3516 Takashi Okamoto and Eitaro Aiyoshi Quantum Annealing Algorithm for Vehicle Scheduling 3523 Alan Crispin and Alex Syrichas Chaotic Optimization Method without Initial Sampling Parameter Tuning Empirical Comparisons of Two Approaches in Various Problems 3529 Takashi Okamoto and Hironori Hirata Multi-objective Integrated Optimization Using Optimization, Modeling and Simulation 3537 Hirotaka Katayama, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda Combinatorial Optimization Method Based on Hierarchical Structure in Solution Space 3543 Hiroki Ochiai, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda SMC: Human-Machine - HM-10 Sensory Perception through an Electro-tactile Stimulus Array on the Tongue 3549 A. Jeffs and K. Warwick Extension Force Control Considering Contact with an Object Using a Wearable Robot for an Upper Limb 3555 Keishi Yonezawa, Naoto Mizutani, Norihiko Kato, Keníichi Yano, Takaakl Aoki Yasuyukl Kobayashi, and Yutaka Nishimoto Effect of Visual Cues on Line Drawing Performance 3561 Tetsuyou Watanabe Light-Emitting Device for Supporting Auditory Awareness of Hearing-Impaired People during Group Conversations 3567 Yoshihiro Kaneko, Inho Chung, and Kenji Suzuki 
lvi 


Fallen Person Detection for Mobile Robots Using 3D Depth Data 3573 Michael Volkhardt, Friederike Schneemann, and Horst-Michael Gross Muscle Synergy Analysis of Human Standing-Up Motion with Different Chair Heights and Different Motion Speeds 3579 Qi An, Yuki Ishikawa, Junki Nakagawa, Hiroyuki Oka, Hiroshi Yamakawa Atsushi Yamashita, and Hajime Asama Semantic Indoor Navigation with a Blind-User Oriented Augmented Reality 3585 Samleo L. Joseph, Xiaochen Zhang, Ivan Dryanovski, Jizhong Xiao, Chucai Yi and YingLi Tian SMC: Systems Science - SYS-19 Robust Discriminator between Bicycle Rider and Pusher Based on CHLAC of Leg Movement from Video Sequence 3592 Yuki Ishii, Hiroshi Hisahara, Masahito Ota, Takeki Ogitsu, Hiroshi Takemura and Hiroshi Mizoguchi A Train Load Planning Optimization Model for Intermodal Freight Transport Terminals: A Case Study 3597 Mariagrazia Dotolia, Nicola Epicocoa, Marco Falagariob, Domenico Palmaa and Biagio Turchianoa Parking Space Detection Using Textural Descriptors 3603 Paulo Almeida, Luiz S. Oliveira, Eunelson Silva Jr., Alceu Britto Jr and Alessandro Koerich Dynamic Management of Parking Spaces in Road Rest Areas with Automatic Negotiation 3609 M. Capdevila, Vicente R. Tomas, Luis A. Garca, and M. Prades Farron Tracking Multiple Moving Vehicles in Low Frame Rate Videos Based on Trajectory Information 3615 Giyoung Lee, Rammohan Mallipeddi, and Minho Lee Intelligent Traffic Light Control of Isolated Intersections Using Machine Learning Methods 3621 Sahar Araghi, Abbas Khosravi, Michael Johnstone, and Doug Creighton Visibility Enhancement of Single Hazy Images Using Hybrid Dark Channel Prior 3627 Yi-Jui Cheng, Bo-Hao Chen, Shih-Chia Huang, Sy-Yen Kuo, Andrey Kopylov Oleg Seredint, Leonid Mestetskiy, Boris Vishnyakov, Yury Vizilter Oleg Vygolov, Chia-Ruei Lian, and Chi-Ting Wu 
lvii 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-20 Component-Based Modelling for Generating Robotic Arm Applications Running under OROCOS Middleware 3633 A. Sanchez Garcia, E. Estevez, J. Gomez Ortega, and J. Gamez Garcia Predictive Modeling of Time-Varying Environmental Information for Path Planning 3639 Woojin Kim, Hyeonbeom Lee, and H. Jin Kim Kelpie: A ROS-Based Multi-robot Simulator for Water Surface and Aerial Vehicles 3645 Ricardo MendonÁa, Pedro Santana, Francisco Marques, AndrÈ LourenÁo Jo„o Silva, and JosÈ Barata Improved Monte Carlo Localization with Robust Orientation Estimation for Mobile Robots 3651 Chen-Chien Hsu, Chia-Jui Kuo, and Wen-Chung Kao Visual Predictive Control of Robot Manipulators Using a 3D ToF Camera 3657 S. Satorres MartÌnez, J. GÛmez Ortega, J. G·mez GarcÌa, A. S·nchez GarcÌa and J. de la Casa C·rdenas Reducing the Computational Cost of a Monte Carlo Based Planning Algorithm 3663 Hao Wang and Simon J. Julier A Semantic-Similarity-Based Method for Object Description and Clustering 3669 Jing Xu, Shogo Okada, and Katsumi Nitta Driver-Vehicle Systems, Modeling, Dynamics, and Control H01-01 A Subjective Force Perception Model of Humans and Its Application to a Steering Operation System of a Vehicle 3675 Kazuhiro Takemura, Naoki Yamada, Atsuhide Kishi, Kazuo Nishikawa Takahide Nouzawa, Chang Li, Yuichi Kurita, and Toshio Tsuji Driver Behaviour Analysis through Simulation 3681 Andreas Gregoriades, Christos Florides, Vicky Papadopoulou Lesta and Maria Pampaka Biomechanical and Psychophysical Evaluation of Operating Loads in Vehicular Driving 3687 Yoshiyuki Tanaka, Mitsuhiro Narusue, Hiroaki Matsubara, Toshio Tsuji Tomonori Ohtsubo, Hiroshi Okiyama, Matsuhiro Tanaka, and Shunichiro Miyawaki Driver Distraction Assessment Using Driver Modeling 3693 Peter Hermannst‰dter and Bin Yang 
lviii 


Experiment Design for Measuring Driver Reaction Time in Driving Situation 3699 Zhong Zhang, Yuki Asakawa, Takashi Imamura, and Tetsuo Miyake Modeling Driver Steering Control Based on Stochastic Model Predictive Control 3704 Ting Qu, Hong Chen, Yan Ji, Hongyan Guo, and Dongpu Cao Quantitative Driving Style Estimation for Energy-Oriented Applications in Road Vehicles 3710 Andrea Corti, Carlo Ongini, Mara Tanelli, and Sergio M. Savaresi Human-Machine Interface and Haptics - H02-02 Cepstrum Based Unsupervised Spike Classification 3716 Sherif Haggag, Shady Mohamed, Asim Bhatti, Nong Gu, Hailing Zhou and Saeid Nahavandi Fast Volumetric Reconstruction of Human Body through Superquadrics 3721 I. Infantino, F. Vella, G. Martino, and S. Gaglio A User Study with GUIs Tailored for Smartphones and Tablet PCs 3727 David Raneburger, Roman Popp, David Alonso-RÌos, Hermann Kaind and J¸rgen Falb Estimation Method of Clothes Size for Virtual Fitting Room with Kinect Sensor 3733 Reizo Nakamura, Masaki Izutsu, and Shosiro Hatakeyama Assessing Goal-Directed Three-Dimensional Movements in a Virtual Reality Block Design Task 3739 Wooram Jeon, Michael Clamann, David B. Kaber, and Nancy J. Currie Use of Foot for Direct Interactions with Entities of a Virtual Environment Displayed on a Mobile Device 3745 Bob-Antoine J. Menelas and Martin J-D. Otis An Investigation into Thumb Rotation Using High Density Surface Electromyography of Extrinsic Hand Muscles 3751 A. Aranceta-Garza, H. Lakany, and B.A. Conway Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-02 Evaluation of Arterial Stiffness during the Flow-Mediated Dilation Test 3756 Harutoyo Hirano, Daisuke Kiharat, Hiroki Hirano, Yuichi Kurita, Teiji Ukawa Tsuneo Takayanagi, Haruka Morimoto, Ryuji Nakamura, Noboru Saeki Yukihito Higashi, Masashi Kawamoto, Masao Yoshizumi, and Toshio Tsuji An Ultrasonic Imaging for Seminiferous Tubules Beyond the Wavelength Limit 3760 Koki Tsukuda, Tomomoto Ishikawa, and Yutaka Hata 
lvix 


Mobile Patient Monitoring for the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit Work Domain Analysis and Rapid Prototyping Results 3765 Matthias Geˆrges, Catherine M. Burns, Plinio P. Morita, and J. Mark Ansermino Fabrication of Reflectance Pulse Oximeter with Ring-Shaped Photodiode 3771 Masahide Kano, Yota Sato, Kensuke Kanda, Takayuki Fujita Kazusuke Maenaka, Kazuo Kasai, and Kohei Higuchi Toward Personalized Cognitive Training for Elderly with Mild Cognitive Impairment: Cerebral Blood Flow Activation during Verbally-Based Cognitive Activities 3775 Shohei Kato, Hidetoshi Endo, Risako Nagata, Takuto Sakuma and Keita Watanabe Ultra Low Power ASIC for R-R Interval Extraction on Wearable Health Monitoring System 3780 Takayuki Fujita, Tomoya Tanaka, Koji Sonoda, Kensuke Kanda and Kazusuke Maenaka Unsupervised Classification of Cross-Section Area of Spinal Canal 3784 Chao-Cheng Wu, Guan-Sheng Huang, Yi-Ling Chen, Yung-Hsiao Chiang and Jiannher Lin Proactive Health Care Systems, Methodologies and Applications - H06-02 Ejecting Outliers to Enhance Robustness of Fuzzy Cluster Ensemble 3790 Li-Jen Kao and Yo-Ping Huang Mobile Care Robot Localization and Guidance Using Image Structure Map 3796 Chuan-Pin Lu, Ta-Hua Yeh, and Wei Huang Modeling and Performance Analysis of Route-Over and Mesh-Under Routing Schemes in 6LoWPAN 3802 Tsung-Han Lee, Hung-Shiou Chiang, Lin-Huang Chang, Ming-Chun Hsieh Chih-Hao Wen, and Kian Meng Yap An Acceleration Feature-Based Gesture Recognition System 3807 Hung-Chi Chu, Sheng-Chih Huang, and Jiun-Jiam Liaw Energy-Efficient Oriented Routing Algorithm in Wireless Sensor Networks 3813 Lin-Huang Chang, Tsung-Han Lee, Shu-Jan Chen, and Cheng-Yen Liao A Body-Sensed Motor Assessment System for Stroke Upper-Limb Rehabilitation: A Preliminary Study 3819 Chao-Hsien Lee, Yu-Hsien Chiu, Hao-Yun Kao, I-Te Chen, I-Nong Lee Wen-Hsien Ho, Liang-Yu Chen, Pin-Han Huang, Sin-Hao Chen, Chih-Yun Liu and Hsiao-Yan Lu 
lx 


Recognition of the Ambulance Siren Sound in Taiwan by the Longest Common Subsequence 3825 Jiun-Jian Liaw, Wen-Shen Wang, Hung-Chi Chu, Meng-Sian Huang and Chuan-Pin Lu Self-Organization and Emergence in Distributed Manufacturing Systems - S08-01 Self-Organized Holonic Multi-agent Manufacturing System: The Behavioural Perspective 3829 JosÈ Barbosa, Paulo Leit„o, Emmanuel Adam, and Damien Trentesaux Bio-inspired Self-Organising Methodologies for Production Emergence 3835 Jo„o Dias Ferreira, Luis Ribeiro, Mauro Onori, and JosÈ Barata Multiagent Mechatronic Systems with Simulation on the Loop 3842 Luis Ribeiro, JosÈ Barata, Dean Whittingslow, and Roland Krain Control System Software Design Methodology for Automotive Industry 3848 Giovanni Di Orio, JosÈ Barata, Carlos Sousa, and Luis Flores Prospection of Methods to Support Design and Configuration of Self-Organizing Mechatronic Systems 3854 P. Neves, J. Ferreira, M. Onori, L. Ribeiro, and J. Barata An Axiomatic Design Approach to Production Path Enumeration in Reconfigurable Manufacturing Systems 3862 Amro M. Farid SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-21 Human Movement Analysis: Extension of the F-Statistic to Time Series Using HMM 3870 Michelle Karg, Wolfgang Seiber, Jesse Hoey, and Dana Kulic A Framework for Automatic Text Generation of Trends in Physiological Time Series Data 3876 Hadi Banaee, Mobyen Uddin Ahmed, and Amy Loutfi A Preliminary Study of Interaction Effects on Brain Activity during Cooperative Work Using fNIRS 3882 Tomoyuki Hiroyasu, Mao Goto, Utako Yamamoto, and Hisatake Yokouchi Effect of Texture Features in Computer Aided Diagnosis of Pulmonary Nodules in Low-Dose Computed Tomography 3887 Henry Krewer, Benjamin Geiger, Lawrence O. Hall, Dmitry B. Goldgof Yuhua Gu, Melvyn Tockman, and Robert J. Gillies The Cybernetics of Human Cognition and Adult Language Learning 3892 Mir Azmath Ali and Narayana G.P.L. Mandaleeka 
lxi 


Automatic Design of a Novel Image Filter Based on the GA-EM Algorithm for Vein Shapes 3897 Koji Kashihara Spatial Cognition Degree of Development Classification Using Largest Lyapunov Exponents 3903 Guilherme Maron, Dante A.C. Barone, and Elias A. Ramos SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-22 A Stability Analysis Based Parameter Setting Method for Spiral Optimization 3909 Kenichi Tamura and Keiichiro Yasuda Adaptive Parameter Adjustment of Differential Evolution 3915 Ruren Ji, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda An Improvement in Classification Accuracy of Fuzzy Oriented Classifier Evolution 3921 Junji Otsuka and Tomoharu Nagao A New Partitioning Method for the IDS Method 3927 Yoshito Ozaki and Akira Utsumi Shadowed C-Means for Image Segmentation Using Local and Non-local Spatial Information 3933 Jing Zou, Long Chen, and C. L. Philip Chen Type-2 SIC Fuzzy Inference Models 3939 Hirosato Seki SMC: Human-Machine - HM-11 Game Poetry: Promotion of Poetry through a Game-Based Learning System 3944 Hsin-Yi Liang and Sherry Y. Chen Image-Based Rendering for Ink Painting 3950 Lingyu Liang and Lianwen Jin Personalization of Interactive Digital Media in Ubiquitous Educational Environments 3955 Rafael D. Ara˙jo, Taffarel Brant-Ribeiro, Renan G. Cattelan, Sandra A. de Amo and Hiran N.M. Ferreira Vibration-Induced Friction Control for Walkway Locomotion Interface 3961 Guillaume Millet, Martin J.-D. Otis, and Jeremy R. Cooperstock Qualitative Risk of Falling Assessment Based on Gait Abnormalities 3966 David Gagnon, Bob-Antoine J. Menelas, and Martin J.-D. Otis Role Analysis of Dominant and Non-dominant Hand in Daily Life 3972 Hiroshi Kousaka, Hiroshi Mizoguchi, Masahiro Yoshikawa, Hideyuki Tanaka and Yoshio Matsumoto 
lxii 


Classification of Trunk Motion for a Backbone Exoskeleton Using Inertial Data and Surface Electromyography 3978 Abhijit Kadrolkar and Frank Sup SMC: Systems Science - SYS-21 The Effect of Clustering-Based and Degree-Based Weighting on Robustness in Symmetrically Coupled Heterogeneous Interdependent Networks 3984 Yuzhuo Qiu Mixed Poisson Deterioration Model for Bridge Management 3989 Kengo Obama, Kiyoyuki Kaito, and Kiyoshi Kobayashi A System Architecture to Support Cost-Effective Transcription and Translation of Large Video Lecture Repositories 3994 Joan Albert Silvestre-Cerd‡, Alejandro PÈrez, Manuel JimÈnez, Carlos Turr Alfons Juan, and Jorge Civera Estimation of the Reflectance Distribution of Fallen Objects on Highways for Tunnel Lighting Management 4000 So Sakaguchi, Satoshi Hirakawa, Daijiro Mizutani, Kengo Obama and Kiyoyuki Kaito Background Subtraction Using Gaussian Mixture Model Enhanced by Hole Filling Algorithm \(GMMHF 4006 Adi Nurhadiyatna, Wisnu Jatmiko, Benny Hardjono, Ari Wibisono, Ibnu Sina and Petrus Mursanto Using Neuro-fuzzy Models to Benchmark Road Safety Management Systems 4012 Maris Sekar, Mohammad Moshirpour, Julian Serfontein, and Behrouz H. Far Image Based Automatic Road Surface Crack Detection for Achieving Smooth Driving on Deformed Roads 4018 Chinthaka Premachandra, H. Waruna, H. Premachandra and Chandana Dinesh Parape SMC: Systems Science - SYS-22 Coordinating the Collective Behavior of Swarm Robotics Systems Based on Incremental Evolution 4024 Kazuhiro Ohkura, Toshiyuki Yasuda, and Yoshiyuki Matsumura Mathematical Morphology Applied in Object Tracking on Position-Based Visual Servoing 4030 Diego Saqui, Fernando C. Sato, Edilson R.R. Kato, Emerson C. Pedrino and Roberto H. Tsunaki 
lxiii 


GRASPER: A Multisensory Based Manipulation System for Underwater Operations 4036 P.J. Sanz, A. PeÒalver, J. Sales, D. Fornas, J.J. Fern·ndez, J. PÈrez and J. Bernab Autonomous Robot Hitting Task Using Dynamical System Approach 4042 Farid Oubbati, Mathis Richter, and Gregor Schˆner Cross-Spectral Stereo Matching Based on Local Self-Similarities and Image Moments 4048 Tarek Mouats and Nabil Aouf The Representation of Weighted Action-Coupled Semantic Network and Spreading Activation Model for Improvisational Action 4054 Gi Hyun Lim, Il Hong Suh, and LuÌs Seabra Lopes Visual Search of an Object in Cluttered Environments for Robotic Errand Service 4060 Xi Chen and Sukhan Lee Simulation of Hardware Variations in Swarm Robots 4066 Beining Shang, Richard Crowder, and Klaus-Peter Zauner Cloud Computing - C14-01 A Game Theoretic Approach to Service Discovery and Selection 4072 Yi Chen, Bakh Khoussainov, and Xinfeng Ye EucaBomber: Experimental Evaluation of Availability in Eucalyptus Private Clouds 4080 Debora Souza, Rubens Matos, Jean Araujo, Vandi Alves, and Paulo Maciel Availability and Energy Consumption Analysis of Mobile Cloud Environments 4086 Danilo Oliveira, Jean Araujo, Rubens Matos, and Paulo Maciel Elasticity in Service Level Agreements 4092 Frank Schulz Stochastic Model Generation for Cloud Infrastructure Planning 4098 Erica Sousa, Paulo Maciel, Lais Medeiros, Fernando Lins, Eduardo Tavares and Erico Medeiros Private Cloud Cooperation Framework of E-Learning Environment for Disaster Recovery 4104 Satoshi Togawa and Kazuhide Kanenishi Comparative Analysis of Migration-Based Rejuvenation Schedules on Cloud Availability 4110 Matheus Melo, Jean Araujo, Rubens Matos, Julian Menezes, and Paulo Maciel 
lxiv 


Energy-Efficient Virtual Machine Management in Heterogeneous Environment Challenges, Approaches and Opportunities 4116 Mohammad Fozlul Haque Bhuiyan and Chun Wang Driver-Vehicle Systems, Modeling, Dynamics, and Control H01-02 Event-Based Control of Freeway Systems 4122 A. Ferrara S. Sacone and S. Siri Predictive Rollover Index Based on Frontal Road Geometry and On-Line Driver Information 4128 Liang-kuang Chen and Jian-min Huang Analysis of Brain Activity during VR-Based Driving Using Near-Infrared Spectroscopy 4134 Keiichi Watanuki, Kenta Hirayama, and Kazunori Kaede Eye Movement Detection for Assessing Driver Drowsiness by Electrooculography 4142 Parisa Ebrahim, Wolfgang Stolzmann, and Bin Yang A Real-Time Implementation of an MPC-Based Motion Cueing Strategy with Time-Varying Prediction 4149 Alessandro Beghi, Mattia Bruschetta, and Fabio Maran Defining "Critical Speed" in Driver-Vehicle Systems 4155 Craig West and Dongpu Cao Dynamic Trajectory Planning for Vehicle Autonomous Driving 4161 Sumin Zhang, Weiwen Deng, Qingrong Zhao, Hao Sun, and Bakhtiar Litkouhi Enhancing the Energy Efficiency of Fully Electric Vehicles via the Minimization of Motor Power Losses 4167 A. Pennycott, L. De Novellis, P. Gruber, A. Sorniotti, and T. Goggia Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-03 A Pattern Recognition Method for Automating Tactile Graphics Translation from Hand-Drawn Maps 4173 Jianjun Chen and Noboru Takagi Pupil Diameter Variation in Positive and Negative Emotions with Visual Stimulus 4179 Shuhei Kawai, Hironobu Takano, and Kiyomi Nakamura Haptics for Multi-fingered Palpation 4184 Min Li, Shan Luo, Lakmal D. Seneviratne, Thrish Nanayakkara Kaspar Althoefer, and Prokar Dasgupta 
lxv 


Evaluating Manual Palpation Trajectory Patterns in Tele-manipulation for Soft Tissue Examination 4190 Jelizaveta Konstantinova, Min Li, Vahid Aminzadeh, Kaspar Althoefer Thrishantha, and Prokar Dasgupta Human Tracking and Estimation under Occlusion Using Laser Range Scanner and Accelerometer 4196 Shogo Shibutani, Hiroki Tamura, and Koichi Tanno Accuracy of Voice Pitch Control in Singing Using Tactile Voice Pitch Feedback Display 4201 Masatsugu Sakajiri, Shigeki Miyoshi, Kenryu Nakamura, Satoshi Fukushima and Tohru Ifukube Fundamental Study on Tactile Cognition through Haptic Feedback Touchscreen 4207 Junji Onishi, Masatsugu Sakajiri, Takahiro Miurat, and Tsukasa Ono Motion Estimation Based on EMG and EEG Signals to Control Wearable Robots 4213 Kazuo Kiguchi and Yoshiaki Hayashi Perception: Part A - Perception and Its Applications - H07-01 New Perception of Fluffy Surfaces 4219 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, and Honghai Liu Development of Gazing Interface for Operation of a Page Turner Machine 4225 Nobuaki Nakazawa, Ilhwan Kim, Hiroki Murakawa, and Toshikazu Matsui Mitigating Biases in Time-to-Contact Judgments with Cockpit Displays of Traffic Information 4231 Carl Pankok and David B. Kaber Segmentation of Natural Scenes Based on Visual Attention and Gestalt Grouping Laws 4237 R.G. Mesquita and C.A.B. Mello Finding Text in Natural Scenes by Visual Attention 4243 R.G. Mesquita and C.A.B. Mello Tracked Object Association in Multi-camera Surveillance Network 4248 Xiaochen Dai and Shahram Payandeh Pedestrian Guidance and Sensory Fusion Using Peripheral-Vision-Stimulus and Vibratory Stimulus 4254 Norifumi Watanabe, Fumihiko Mori, and Takashi Omori 
lxvi 


SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-23 A Novel Approach for Binarization of Overlay Text 4259 Zhike Zhang and Weiqiang Wang Texture Analysis for the Segmentation of Optic Disc in Retinal Images 4265 Suraya Mohammad, D.T. Morris, and Neil Thacker A Faster Method for Chinese Font Recognition Based on Harris Corner 4271 Shuye Zhang, Lianwen Jin, Dapeng Tao, and Zhao Yang HaarHOG: Improving the HOG Descriptor for Image Classification 4276 Sugata Banerji, Atreyee Sinha, and Chengjun Liu Automatic Detection of Laughter and Fillers in Spontaneous Mobile Phone Conversations 4282 Hugues Salamin, Anna Polychroniou, and Alessandro Vinciarelli Visual Tracking Based on Compressive Sensing MCMC Sampling 4288 Lan Wang, Pingyang Dai, Yanlong Luo, Cuihua Li, and Yi Xie Modelling-Based Feature Selection for Classification of Forest Structure Using Very High Resolution Multispectral Imagery 4294 Benoit Beguet, Samia Boukir, Dominique Guyon, and Nesrine Chehata A New Method for Online Retinal Optic-Disc Detection Based on Cascade Classifiers 4300 Claudio A. Perez, Daniel A. Schulz, Carlos M. Aravena, Claudio I. Perez and T. Juan Verdaguer SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-24 Boundary Detection Based on Chromatic Color Difference and Morphological Texture Suppression 4305 D.C. Costa, C.A.B. Mello, and T.J. dos Santos Fuzzy Consistency Measure with Particle Swarm Optimization for Feature Selection 4311 Basabi Chakraborty and Goutam Chakraborty Pareto-Front Analysis and AdaBoost for Person Detection Using Heterogeneous Features 4316 A. A. Mekonnen, F. Lerasle, and A. Herbulot Pedestrian Detection under Progressive Occlusion 4322 Silvio G.O. Santos, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti, Tsang Ing Jyh and Jan Sijbers Type-2 Fuzzy GMM-UBM for Text-Independent Speaker Verification 4328 Hector N.B. Pinheiro, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti, Tsang Ing Jyh and Jan Sijbers 
lxvii 


A Combined Features Approach for Speaker Segmentation Using BIC and Artificial Neural Networks 4332 Leonardo Valeriano Neri, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti Tsang Ing Jyh, and Jan Sijbers Bird Species Classification Based on Color Features 4336 AndrÈia Marini, Jacques Facon, and Alessandro L. Koerich Regression Based Learning of Human Actions from Video Using HOF-LBP Flow Patterns 4342 Binu M. Nair and Vijayan K. Asari SMC: Human-Machine - HM-12 Finding People in Apartments with a Mobile Robot 4348 Michael Volkhardt and Horst-Michael Gross People Tracking on a Mobile Companion Robot 4354 Michael Volkhardt, Christoph Weinrich, and Horst-Michael Gross Applying Behavioral Strategies for Student Engagement Using a Robotic Educational Agent 4360 LaVonda Brown, Ryan Kerwin, and Ayanna M. Howard High Resolution Binocular Video See-Through Display for Interactive Work Support - Development of System and Evaluation of Depth Perception and Peg-in-Hole Tasks 4366 Kazuyo Iwamoto and Jun Ishikawa Assessment of the Wiimote as a Tangible User Interface for Interactive Virtual Environments 4372 Jacopo Aleotti, Stefano Caselli, and Vincenzo Micelli Improving the Localization Accuracy of Virtual Sound Source through Reinforcement Learning 4378 Manabu Washizu, Shuhei Morioka, Isao Nambu, Shohei Yano Haruhide Hokari, and Yasuhiro Wada Appearance-Based 3D Upper-Body Pose Estimation and Person Re-identification on Mobile Robots 4384 Christoph Weinrich, Michael Volkhardt, and Horst-Michael Gross Learning Behaviors from Human Teachers by Generalizing Task-Relevant Features 4391 Huan Tan and Qu Zhang 
lxviii 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-23 3D Face Recognition: Feature Extraction Based on Directional Signatures from Range Data and Disparity Maps 4397 Soodamani Ramalingam Multi Image Encryption and Steganography Based on Synchronization of Chaotic Lasers 4403 Sumona Mukhopadhyay and Henry Leung Design and Analysis of the Gateway-Level Topology Map in Topology-Aware ALM Systems 4409 Jianqun Cui, Naixue Xiong, Libing Wu, Keming Jia, and Kuan Gao Organizational Responsibility Model: Dealing with Demand for Services Higher Than Installed Capacity 4415 Guttenberg Ferreira Passos, Ilan Chamovitz, and Babis Theodoulidis A Situated Approach to Systems Based Modeling of Services 4421 Anshuman Saxena and Alain Wegmann Systems Oriented Approach to Production Support - A Viable Framework 4427 Veerendra K. Rai 3D Face Synthesis with KINECT 4433 Soodamani Ramalingam and Nguyen Trong Viet Increase Energy Efficiency of Data Center Cooling Facilities with Airflow Optimization 4439 Jochen Buchholz, Yosandra Sandoval, and Eugen Volk SMC: Systems Science - SYS-24 A Robust Anomaly Detection in Pantograph-Catenary System Based on Mean-Shift Tracking and Foreground Detection 4444 Ilhan Aydin, Mehmet Karakˆse, and Erhan Akin Distributed Algorithm for Connected Dominating Set Construction in Sensor Networks 4450 Najla Al-Nabhan, Mznah Al-Rodhaan, Abdullah Al-Dhelaan, and Xiuzhen Cheng A Smart Surface Simulation Environment 4456 David R.W. Barr, Declan Walsh, and Piotr Dudek Developing an Agent Model of a Missing Person in the Wilderness 4462 W. Mohibullah and Simon J. Julie Multi-robot Cooperation Based on Continuous Reinforcement Learning with Two State Space Representations 4470 Toshiyuki Yasuda, Kazuhiro Ohkura, and Kazuaki Yamada 
lxix 


Hierarchical Navigation Architecture and Robotic Arm Controller for a Sample Return Rover 4476 Velin Dimitrov, Mathew DeDonato, Adam Panzica, Samir Zutshi, Mitchell Wills and Taskin Padir Modular Robot Arm Design for Physical Human-Robot Interaction 4482 Ty Tremblay and Taskin Padir Kinematic Control of a Planetary Exploration Rover over Rough Terrain 4488 Thomas J. Carlone, Jon J. Anderson, Joseph L. Amato, Velin D. Dimitrov and Taskin Padir SMC: Systems Science - SYS-25 Thesaurus Performance with Information Retrieval: Schema Matching as a Case Study 4494 Thabit Sabbah and Ali Selamat A Novel Method for the Development of an Idealised Active Roll Stabilisation System Model 4499 Ingo Scharfenbaum, Alessio Fratini, and Gunther Prokop Conceptual Modeling Semantics for the Physical-Informatical Essence Duality Problem 4505 Yaniv Mordecai, Craig Chapman, and Dov Dori Research on the Application of Multi-model Predictive Control in Coordinated Control of 1,000 MW Ultra-supercritical Unit 4511 Xi Zhang, Shihe Chen, Weiwu Yan, and Guoliang Wang Control of Polystyrene Batch Reactor Using Fuzzy Logic Controller 4516 Mohammad Anwar Hosen, Abbas Khosravi, Saeid Nahavandi and Douglas Creighton Backstepping Control on SE\(3 Tracking 4522 Hyeonbeom Lee, Suseong Kim, Tyler Ryan, and H. Jin Kim An Agent-Based Simulation to Quantify and Analyze Bullwhip Effects in Supply Chains 4528 Nguyen Quoc Chinh, Li Zhengping, Tan Puay Siew, Chen Xianshun and Ong Yew Soon 
lxx 


Advances in Medical Informatics - C18-01 A Texture Feature Ranking Model for Predicting Survival Time of Brain Tumor Patients 4533 Mu Zhou, Lawrence O. Hall, Dmitry B. Goldgof, Robert A. Gatenby and Robert J. Gillies Diagnosis of Lymphatic Diseases Using a Naive Bayes Style Possibilistic Classifier 4539 Karim Baati, Tarek M. Hamdani, and Adel M. Alimi Revisiting Link-Based Cluster Ensembles for Microarray Data Classification 4543 Natthakan Iam-On and Tossapon Boongoen Automated Driving and Safety Systems - H09-01 Towards Evaluation of Post Impact Braking Function in Driving Simulator 4549 Faouzi Al Mouatamid, Artem Kusachov, Bengt Jacobson, and Derong Yang Using a Mediator to Handle Undesired Feature Interaction of Automated Driving 4555 Dominik Ertl, Sven Dominka, and Hermann Kaindl Lateral Control of Vehicle Platoons 4561 Stefan Solyom, Arash Idelchi, and Badr Bin Salamah Environmental Information Systems - S12-01 A Survey on Environmental Open Data in Austria 4566 Peter Wetz, Amin Anjomshoaa, and A. Min Tjoa An Intelligent Lighting System with a Seat Management Mechanism 4571 Mitsunori Miki, Hisanori Ikegami, Ryoga Okunishi, Kazuki Matsutani and Shohei Fujimoto Combination of Preferred Illuminance and Preferred Color Temperature for Work 4577 Mitsunori Miki, Hisanori Ikegam, Yo Motoya, and Shohei Fujimoto Maximization of the Average Color Rendering Index of Color Temperature and Illuminance Constraints 4583 Mitsunori Miki, Shohei Fujimoto, Yo Motoya, and Ryoga Okunishi Ontology-Based Integration of Heterogeneous Material Data Resources in Product Lifecycle Management 4589 Touba Rahmani, SÈbastien Bougain, and Detlef Gerhard 
lxxi 


Human-Centered Transportation Systems - H05-02 The Effect of Motion-Induced Factor on the Operator Performance during Ship's Watch 4595 Tunglam Ngodang, Koji Murai, Yuji Hayashi, Nobuo Mitomo, Kenji Yoshimura and Kenjiro Hikida Evaluation of Pilot Mental Workload for Simulator Based Training Using Heart Rate Variability 4601 Masahiro Tanaka, Koji Murai, and Yuji Hayashi Trial Study of Traffic Safety Education for High School Students Using Driving Simulator 4606 Takashi Imamura, Tomonari Ogi, Elvin Tiong Chew Lun, Zhong Zhang and Tetsuo Miyake Emotion and Gesture Recognition with Soft Computing Tool for Drivers Assistance System in Human Centered Transportation 4612 Urvashi Agrawal, Shubhangi Giripunje, and Preeti Bajaj Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-04 Use of Simulated Inertia to Improve the Performance of a BEP Human-Computer Interface 4617 Noel Segura Meraz and Yasuhisa Hasegawa Multi-human Locating in Real Environment by Thermal Sensor 4623 Masato Kuki, Hiroshi Nakajima, Naoki Tsuchiya, and Yutaka Hata On a Learning-Science System Supporting Visually Impaired Students via the Haptic Device 4629 Takashi Suzuki, Tomoyuki Araki, Katsuhiro Kawai Yasuyuki Murai and Hisayuki Tatsumi Metaheuristic Algorithms for Data Mining - C16-01 DECoDe - Differential Evolution Algorithm for Community Detection 4635 Thiago P. Leal, Amanda C.A. GonÁalves, VinÌcius da F. Vieira and Carolina R. Xavier The Effect of Features Using Feature Selection for Bayesian Classifier 4641 L. Moore and C. Kambhampati A Hybrid Approach for Mining Frequent Itemsets 4647 Bay Vo, Frans Coenen, Tuong Le, and Tzung-Pei Hong An IT2FLS-Based Malware Analysis Mechanism: Malware Analysis Network in Taiwan \(MiT 4652 Hsien-De Huang, Chang-Shing Lee Mei-Hui Wang, and Hung-Yu Kao 
lxxii 


SMC: Human-Machine - HM-13 User-Friendly Free-Text Keystroke Dynamics Authentication for Practical Applications 4658 Arwa Alsultan and Kevin Warwick A Study on Body Part Motion Caused by Improper Crutch Walk 4664 Naoaki Tsuda, Kota Tominaga, Yoshihiko Nomura, and Norihiko Kato Simulation Interface for Gesture-Based Remote Control of a Surgical Lighting Arm 4670 Jean-FranÁois Collumeau, Elyse Nespoulous, HÈlËne Laurent, and Benoit Magnain Topic and Opinion Classification Based Information Credibility Analysis on Twitter 4676 Yukino Ikegami, Kenta Kawai, Yoshimi Namihira, and Setsuo Tsuruta Human Interactions for Self-Adaptive Virtual Product Prototype 4682 L·szlÛ Horv·th and Imre J. Rudas Towards a Rule-Based Bidding Language: Promoting the Free Expression of Rational Conduct for Ecosystem Friendly E-Markets 4688 Wafa Ghonaim, Hamada Ghenniwa, and Weiming Shen SMC: Systems Science - SYS-26 A Dwi-Phase Fuzzy Control Structure for an Auto-mode Stair Climbing Wheelchair 4694 N.M.A Ghani and M.O. Tokhi SOS-Based Fuzzy Control of a Wheeled Mobile Robot with Decay Rate 4700 Gwo-Ruey Yum and Wei-Yi Wang Model-less versus Model-Based Controllers for Diabetes 4706 Ahmed Y. Ben Sasi and Mahmud A. Elmalki Guaranteed Cost Control Design Based on Takagi-Sugeno Fuzzy Systems with Nonlinear Subsystems 4712 Shunsuke Ochiai, Jun Yoneyama, and Yuzu Uchida Center of Mass Estimation for Rehabilitation in a Multi-contact Environment: A Simulation Study 4718 Alejandro Gonz·lez, Mitsuhiro Hayashibe, Emel Demircan, and Philippe Fraisse A Simple Phenomenological Modeling of McKibben Pneumatic Actuator and Its Application to Control 4724 Fumitake Fujii, Hiroyoshi Murata, Yuta Hirose, and Takuya Okada State Space Realization of Wood Drying Process: Modeling, Simulation and Evaluation in Reality 4731 Saleh S. Delshad and Thomas Gustafsson 
lxxiii 


Energy Saving and System Performance - An Art of Trade-Off for Controller Design 4737 Kang Li, Yongling Wu, Shaoyuan Li, and Yugeng Xi SMC: Systems Science - Flexible Production Management SYS-27 Multi-agent System Approach for the Strategic Planning in Ramp-Up Production of Small Lots 4743 Paulo Leit„o, JosÈ Barbosa, Pavel Vrba, Petr Skobelev, Alexander Tsarev and Daria Kazanskaia A Conceptual Architecture Based on Intelligent Services for Manufacturing Support Systems 4749 CÈsar A. MarÌn, Lars Mˆnch, Paulo Leit„o, Pavel Vrba, Daria Kazanskaia Vadim Chepegin, Liwei Liu, and Nikolay Mehandjiev Knowledge-Driven Adaptive Production Management Based on Real-Time User Feedback and Ontology Updates 4755 Daria Kazanskaia, Sergey Kozhevnikov, Vladimir Larukhin, Petr Skobelev Alexander Tsarev, and Yaroslav Shepilov Evaluation of an Ecosystem-Based Architecture for Adaptation to Cascades of Changes 4760 CÈsar A. MarÌn Systems Safety and Security - S20-01 Critical Infrastructures Governance Exploring SCADA Cybernetics through Architectured Policy Semantic 4766 Djamel Khadraoui and Christophe Feltus DNSsec in Isabelle - Replay Attack and Origin Authentication 4772 Florian Kamm¸ller, Yoney Kirsal-Ever, and Xiaochun Cheng On the Design of a System for Airport Protection against Terrorist Attacks Using MANPADs 4778 Ionescu Octavian and Pricop Emil Security Threats against the Communication Networks for Traffic Control Systems 4783 Huipu Fan, Yizhou Dong, Ming Yu, and Leonard Tung Chance-Constrained Programming Method by Constraints Aggregation for Social Consensus Making on IT Risk Countermeasure 4789 Katsunori Sato, Masaki Samejima, and Ryoichi Sasaki Performability Evaluation of Emergency System 4794 Marcus Queiroz, Paulo Maciel, Bruno Silva, and Almir P. Guimar„es 
lxxiv 


A Novel Automatic Load Shedding Scheme to Improve Survivability of Distribution Networks 4800 Hao-Tian Zhang, Loi Lei Lai, and Jiebei Zhu Future ICT-Enabled Manufacturing Execution - H12-01 An Exploratory Study into Automated Real-Time Categorisation of Engineering E-Mail 4806 James A. Gopsill, Stephen J. Payne, and Ben J. Hicks Automated Sound Signalling Device Quality Assurance Tool for Embedded Industrial Control Applications 4812 Tomasz Maniak, Rahat Iqbal, Faiyaz Doctor, and Chrisina Jayne Highly Flexible Self-Reconfigurable Systems for Rapid Layout Formation to Offer Manufacturing Services 4819 Victor M. Cedeno-Campos, Paul A. Trodden, Tony J. Dodd, and Jim Heley Physiologically Inspired Systems - S24-01 Human-Inspired Anticipative Postural Control Architecture for Humanoid Robots 4825 S. Martinez, A. JardÛn, and C. Balaguer Artificial Homeostasis for Engineering Systems: Involuntary Reflexes in Physiologically-Inspired Control Applications 4831 Carlos C. Insaurralde Learning from Big Data and Uncertainty - C06-01 Sample Selection Based on K-L Divergence for Effectively Training SVM 4837 Junhai Zhai and Chang Li A Reduction Algorithm for the Big Data in 3D Surface Reconstruction 4843 Jianwei Zhao, Yanqing Fu, Yuanpeng Tan, and Feilong Cao The Nested Structure in Fuzzy Rough Classifier 4848 Zhao Suyun, Chen Hong, Li Cuiping, and Chen Yu Medical Informatics - C17-01 Variation of Dynamic Muscle Model during Fatigue-Inducing Voluntary Contraction 4854 Youngjin Na, Suncheol Kwon, Jung Kim, and Changmok Choi Mining Clinical Pathway Using Clustering and Rule Induction 4860 Shusaku Tsumoto, Shoji Hirano, and Haruko Iwata 
lxxv 


Self-Organization and Emergence in Distributed Manufacturing Systems - S08-02 Characterization of Costs and Strategies for Automation in Evolvable Production Systems 4866 Antonio Maffei, Hakan Akillioglu, and Luis Flores Reliable Self-Learning Production Systems Based on Context Aware Services 4872 Sebastian Scholze, Dragan Stokic, Oliver Kotte, Jose Barata, Giovani Di Orio and Goncalo Candido Energy Efficiency in Machine Tools - A Self-Learning Approach 4878 Giovanni Di Orio, GoncÁlo C‚ndido, JosÈ Barata, JosÈ Luiz Bittencourt and Ralf Bonefeld Personalised Fuzzy Recommendation for High Involvement Products 4884 Vassilis C. Gerogiannis, Anthony Karageorgos, Liwei Liu, and Christos Tjortjis SMC: Systems Science - SYS-28 Semi-Gaku \(Semistry 4891 Toshinori Watanabe From Sense to Print: Towards Automatic 3D Printing from 3D Sensing Devices 4897 Nadia Figueroa, Haiwei Dong, and Abdulmotaleb El Saddik Computationally Tractable Approaches to Modeling the Coverage of Weather Sensor Networks 4905 Ziho Kang and Ellen J. Bass Information-Theoretic Characterization of Uncertainty in Manual Control 4913 Dari Trendafilov and Roderick Murray-Smith Healthcare and Enterprise Systems - S03-01 Mitigating Collisions in Saturated Wireless Network with Receiver Token Ring 4919 Liuxiao Zheng, Kewang Zhang, and Deyun Zhang Design of BCI Based Multi-information System to Restore Hand Motor Function for Stroke Patients 4924 Lin Gao, Jue Wang, Jin Li, and Yang Zheng SMC: Systems Science - SYS-29 A Small-Scale Traffic Monitoring System in Urban Wireless Sensor Networks 4929 Jin Zhou, C. L. Philip Chen, and Long Chen Decentralized Control for Second-Order Uncertain Nonlinear Multi-agent Systems Consensus Problem Based on Fuzzy Adaptive High-Gain Observer 4935 Changíe Ren and C.L. Philip Chen 
lxxvi 


Adaptive NN Consensus Control for a Class of Nonlinear Multi-agent Time-Delay Systems 4941 Guo-Xing Wen and C.L. Philip Chen Author Index 4947 
lxxvii 


Ridha, Ben Abdennour National School of Engineers of Gabes  FrB13 Olympic PID Control Lecture Session Chair: Hernandez-Guzman, Victor M Univ. Autonoma De Queretaro Co-Chair: Gambier, Adrian Univ. of Heidelberg 13:40-14:00 FrB13.1 MPC and PID Control Based on Multi-Objective Optimization pp. 4727-4732 Gambier, Adrian Univ. of Heidelberg 14:00-14:20 FrB13.2 Optimal PID Controller Design Using Standard Optimal Control Techniques pp. 4733-4738 O'Brien, Richard United States Naval Acad Howe III, Jamie United States Naval Acad 14:20-14:40 FrB13.3 P Quasi-I D Control for MIMO Systems_; ---Stabilization Based on High Gain Output Feedback pp. 4739-4745 Shimizu, Kiyotaka Keio Univ Tamura, Kenichi Keio Univ 14:40-15:00 FrB13.4 Robust Stabilization and PID Control for Nonlinear Discretized Systems on a Grid Pattern pp. 4746-4751 Okuyama, Yoshifumi Humanitech Lab 15:00-15:20 FrB13.5 Synthesis of PID Controller with Guaranteed Stability Margin for a Class of Unstable MIMO Systems pp. 4752-4754 Chang, Tsu-Shuan Univ. of California, Davis 15:20-15:40 FrB13.6 Modified Relay Feedback Test and Its Use for Non-Parametric Loop Tuning pp. 4755-4760 Boiko, Igor IMB Controls  FrB14 Adams Adaptive Control II Lecture Session Chair: Niemann, Henrik Tech. Univ. of Denmark Co-Chair: Bernstein, Dennis S Univ. of Michigan 13:40-14:00 FrB14.1 Adaptive Output-Feedback Control of MIMO Plants with Unknown, Time-Varying State Delay pp. 4761-4766 Mirkin, Boris Tech. -- Israel Inst. of Tech Gutman, Per-Olof Tech. Inst. of Tech Falcone, Paolo Chalmers Univ. of Tech 14:00-14:20 FrB14.2 Markov-Parameter-Based Adaptive Control of 3-Axis Angular Velocity in a Six-Degree-Of-Freedom Stewart Platform pp. 4767-4772 Pence, Benjamin Univ. of Michigan Santillo, Mario Univ. of Michigan Bernstein, Dennis S Univ. of Michigan 14:20-14:40 FrB14.3 Discrete Time Lyapunov Stable Staggered Estimator MIMO Adaptive Interference Cancelation with Experimental Verification pp 4773-4778 Arif, Jawad Inst. of Avionics and Aeronautical Engineering Akhtar, Suhail Inst. of Avionics and Aeronautical Engineering 14:40-15:00 FrB14.4 Control System Design for Retinal Imaging Adaptive Optics Systems pp. 4779-4784 Ficocelli, Maurizio Univ. of Toronto Ben Amara, Foued Univ. of Toronto 15:00-15:20 FrB14.5 Adaptive Controller Design and Disturbance Attenuation for Sequentially Interconnected SISO Linear Systems under Noisy Output Measurements with Partly Measured Disturbances pp. 4785-4790 Zeng, Sheng Hewlett-Packard Company Fernandez, Emmanuel Univ. of Cincinnati 15:20-15:40 FrB14.6 Homography-Based Visual Servo Control Via an Uncalibrated Camera pp. 4791-4796 Hu, Guoqiang Univ. of Florida Mackunis, William Univ. of Florida Gans, Nicholas Univ. of Florida Dixon, Warren E Univ. of Florida  


FrB15 Blakeley Uncertain Systems I Lecture Session Chair: Huang, Jie Chinese Univ. of Hong Kong Co-Chair: Haggblom, Kurt E Abo Akademi Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB15.1 Improved Robust Du-Stability Measures Via S-Procedure pp. 4797-4802 Sari, Bilal Univ. of Poitiers Bachelier, Olivier Univ. of Poitiers Mehdi, Driss ESIP-LAII Al Chaer, Toufic Univ. of Poitiers 14:00-14:20 FrB15.2 Robust H_inf SMC of Uncertain Switched Systems with Time Delay pp. 4803-4808 Lian, Jie Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB15.3 Two Algorithms for Model Quality Estimation in State-Space Systems with Time-Varying Parameter Uncertainty pp. 4809-4814 Salehpour, Soheil Lule Univ. of Tech Johansson, Andreas Lulea Univ. of Tech 14:40-15:00 FrB15.4 Robust H_{infty} Control for a Class of Uncertain Neutral Time-Delay Systems Via Dynamic Output Feedback pp. 4815-4820 Sun, Man Beihang Univ Jia, Yingmin Beihang Univ Du, Junping Beijing Univ. of Posts and Telecommunications Yuan, Shiying Henan Pol. Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB15.5 The Servomechanism Problem for Unknown MIMO LTI Positive Systems: Feedforward and Robust Tuning Regulators pp. 4821-4826 Roszak, Bartek Univ. of Toronto Davison, Edward J Univ. of Toronto 15:20-15:40 FrB15.6 Parameter Convergence with an Adaptive Output Regulation Problem pp. 4827-4832 Liu, Lu Chinese Univ. of HongKong Chen, Zhiyong The Univ. of Newcastle Huang, Jie Chinese Univ. of Hong Kong  FrB16 Cascade I \(C Spacecraft Control I Lecture Session Chair: Krishnakumar, Kalmanje NASA Ames Res. Center Co-Chair: Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB16.1 Space Station Zero-Propellant Maneuver Guidance Trajectories Compared to Eigenaxis pp. 4833-4838 Bedrossian, Nazareth Charles Stark Draper Lab Bhatt, Sagar The Charles Stark Draper Lab. Inc 14:00-14:20 FrB16.2 Attitude Tracking with Adaptive Rejection of Rate Gyro Disturbances pp. 4839-4844 Pisu, Pierluigi Clemson Univ Serrani, Andrea The Ohio State Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB16.3 Stabilization of the Angular Velocity of a Rigid Body System Using Two Torques: Energy Matching Condition pp. 4845-4849 Aguilar-Ibanez, Carlos Centro De Investigacion En Computacion Suarez-Castanon, Miguel Santiago Inst. Pol. Nacional Guzman-Aguilar, Florencio ESCOM-IPN 14:40-15:00 FrB16.4 Satellite Attitude Control Using Three Reaction Wheels pp. 4850-4855 Nudehi, Shahin MIchigan State Farooq, Umar Michigan State Univ Alasty, Aria Sharif Univ. of Tech Issa, Jimmy Michigan State Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB16.5 Satellite Attitude Control Using Statistical Game Theory pp. 4856-4861 Lee, Jong-Ha Temple Univ Diersing, Ronald Univ. of Southern Indiana Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 15:20-15:40 FrB16.6 Uniform Practical Output-Feedback Stabilization of Spacecraft Relative Rotation pp. 4862-4867 


Kristiansen, Raymond Narvik Univ. Coll Loria, Antonio CNRS Chaillet, Antoine Univ. Paris Sud Nicklasson, Per Johan Narvik Univ. Coll  FrB17 Whidbey Fuzzy Systems Lecture Session Chair: Lin, Jonqlan Ching Yun Univ Co-Chair: Langari, Reza Texas A&M Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB17.1 A Fuzzy-Based Reconstruction Algorithm for Estimating Metal Fill Profile in Lost Foam Casting pp. 4868-4874 Deabes, Wael Tennessee Tech. Univ Abdelrahman, Mohamed A Tennessee Tech. Univ Rajan, P. K Tennessee Tech. Univ 14:00-14:20 FrB17.2 An SOS-Based Stable Control of Polynomial Discrete Fuzzy Systems pp. 4875-4880 Tanaka, Kazuo Univ. of Electro-Communications Ohtake, Hiroshi Univ. of Electro-communications Wang, Hua O Boston Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB17.3 Fuzzy Model-Based Servo Control for Discrete-Time Nonlinear Systems pp. 4881-4886 Ohtake, Hiroshi Univ. of Electro-communications Tanaka, Kazuo Univ. of Electro-Communications Wang, Hua O Boston Univ 14:40-15:00 FrB17.4 Nonquadratic Lyapunov Function Based Control Law Design for Discrete Fuzzy Systems with State and Input Delays pp. 4887-4892 Sun, Yuming Jiangnan Univ Shen, Yanxia Southern Yangtze Univ Ji, Zhicheng Southern Yangtze Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB17.5 Designing a Hierarchical Fuzzy Controller for Backing-Up a Four Wheel Autonomous Robot pp. 4893-4897 Shahmaleki, Pourya Shiraz Univ Mahzoon, Mojtaba Shiraz Univ 15:20-15:40 FrB17.6 Adaptive Fuzzy Control of Unknown Nonlinear Systems with Actuator Failures for Robust Output Tracking pp. 4898-4903 Li, Ping Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ  FrB18 Vashon I Delay Systems I Lecture Session Chair: Rodrigues, Luis Concordia Univ Co-Chair: Sipahi, Rifat Northeastern Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB18.1 Recursive Predictor Design for Linear Systems with Time Delay pp. 4904-4909 Jankovic, Mrdjan Ford Res. and Advanced Engineering 14:00-14:20 FrB18.2 Convex Analysis and Synthesis for Uncertain Discrete-Time Systems with Time-Varying State Delay pp. 4910-4915 Miranda, Marcio Fantini Federal Univ. of Minas Gerais Leite, Valter J. S CEFET/MG - Campus Div 14:20-14:40 FrB18.3 Lyapunov Tools for Predictor Feedbacks for Delay Systems: Inverse Optimality and Robustness to Delay Mismatch pp. 4916-4921 Krstic, Miroslav Univ. of California at San Diego 14:40-15:00 FrB18.4 Chain Stability in Traffic Flow with Driver Reaction Delays pp. 4922-4927 Sipahi, Rifat Northeastern Univ Niculescu, Silviu-Iulian CNRS-Supelec 15:00-15:20 FrB18.5 Robust Control and Time-Domain Specifications for Systems of Delay Differential Equations Via Eigenvalue Assignment pp. 4928-4933 Yi, Sun Univ. of Michigan Nelson, Patrick Univ. of Michigan Ulsoy, A. Galip Univ. of Michigan 15:20-15:40 FrB18.6 


Stabilization of Discrete Time-Varying Delay Systems: A Convex Parameter Dependent Approach pp. 4934-4939 Leite, Valter J. S CEFET/MG - Campus Div Miranda, Marcio Fantini Federal Univ. of Minas Gerais  FrC03 Grand Ballroom III Robust Control Lecture Session Chair: Fujita, Masayuki Tokyo Inst. of Tech Co-Chair: Lanusse, Patrick Bordeaux 1 Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC03.1 An Improved Version of of the RBode Plot pp. 4940-4945 Xia, Lu Carnegie Mellon Univ Messner, William Carnegie Mellon Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC03.2 Robust H Infinity Control of an Uncertain System Via a Stable Postive Real Output Feedback Controller pp. 4946-4953 Petersen, Ian R UNSW at Australian Def. Force Acad 16:40-17:00 FrC03.3 Fractional Robust Control with Iso-Damping Property pp. 4954-4959 Pommier-Budinger, Valerie ISAE Janat, Yaman ENSICA Nelson Gruel, Dominique Bordeaux 1 Lanusse, Patrick Bordeaux 1 Univ Oustaloup, Alain Univ. Bordeaux 1 - ENSEIRB - ENSCPB 17:00-17:20 FrC03.4 Relaxed Robust Stabilization of Nonlinear Systems with Parametric Uncertainties pp. 4960-4965 Chen, Zhaona Northeastern Univ Zheng, Xiuping Northeastern Univ Jing, Yuanwei Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul 17:20-17:40 FrC03.5 Gamma-Independent H-Inf-Discretization of Sampled-Data Systems by Modified Fast-Sample/Fast-Hold Approximation with Fast Liftin g pp 4966-4972 Hagiwara, Tomomichi Kyoto Univ Okada, Koichiro Kyoto Univ  FrC05 Grand Ballroom II Networked Control Systems III Lecture Session Chair: Lemmon, Michael Univ. of Notre Dame Co-Chair: Martins, Nuno C Univ. of Maryland 16:00-16:20 FrC05.1 Network-Based H_{infty} Control of Systems with Packet Dropout and Time-Varying Sampling Period pp. 4973-4978 Wang, Yu-Long Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC05.2 On Transmitter Design in Power Constrained LQG Control pp. 4979-4984 Breun, Peter Tech. Univ. Munich \(TUM Utschick, Wolfgang TUM 16:40-17:00 FrC05.3 On Decentralized Optimal Control and Information Structures pp. 4985-4990 Motee, Nader Univ. of Pennsylvania Jadbabaie, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Bamieh, Bassam Univ. of California at Santa Barbara 17:00-17:20 FrC05.4 Stabilization of Networked Control Systems with Large Delays and Packet Dropouts pp. 4991-4996 Cloosterman, Marieke Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Van De Wouw, Nathan Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Heemels, Maurice Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Nijmeijer, Hendrik Eindhoven Univ. of Tech 17:20-17:40 FrC05.5 Stability Analysis for a Class of Networked/embedded Control Systems: A Discrete-Time Approach pp. 4997-5002 Fujioka, Hisaya Kyoto Univ  


FrC06 5th Avenue Games and Decision Processes Lecture Session Chair: Neogi, Natasha A Univ. of Illinois Co-Chair: Sundaram, Shreyas Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 16:00-16:20 FrC06.1 Robust Markov Decision Processes Using Sigma Point Sampling pp. 5003-5008 Bertuccelli, Luca F Massachusetts Inst. of Tech How, Jonathan P MIT 16:20-16:40 FrC06.2 Multi-Cumulant and Pareto Strategies for Stochastic Multi-Player Pursuit-Evasion pp. 5009-5015 Pham, Khanh D Air Force Res. Lab Lacy, Seth L Air Force Res. Lab Robertson, Lawrence AIR FORCE Res. Lab 16:40-17:00 FrC06.3 Recursive Computation of Stochastic Nash Games with State-Dependent Noise for Weakly-Coupled Large-Scale Systems pp. 5016-5022 Mukaidani, Hiroaki Hiroshima Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC06.4 N Player Nash Cumulant Games pp. 5023-5028 Diersing, Ronald Univ. of Southern Indiana Sain, Michael K Univ. of Notre Dame Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 17:20-17:40 FrC06.5 A Potential-Based Method for Finite-Stage Markov Decision Processes pp. 5029-5034 Jia, Qing-Shan Tsinghua Univ  FrC09 Vashon II Multivehicle Systems Lecture Session Chair: Martinez, Sonia Univ. of California at San Diego Co-Chair: Pagilla, Prabhakar R Oklahoma State Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC09.1 Elastic Multi-Particle Systems for Bounded-Curvature Path Planning pp. 5035-5040 Ahmadzadeh, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Jadbabaie, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Pappas, George J Univ. of Pennsylvania Kumar, Vijay Univ. of Pennsylvania 16:20-16:40 FrC09.2 Value-Based Control of the Observation-Decision Process pp. 5041-5046 McEneaney, William Univ. of California, San Diego Oran, Ali Univ. of California, San Diego Cavender, Andrew Univ. of California, San Diego 16:40-17:00 FrC09.3 Decentralized Control Based on the Value of Information in Large Vehicle Arrays pp. 5047-5054 Speyer, Jason L Univ. of California at Los Angeles Seok, Ilwoo UCLA Michelin, Andre UCLA 17:00-17:20 FrC09.4 Decentralized Reactive Collision Avoidance for Multiple Unicycle-Type Vehicles pp. 5055-5061 Lalish, Emmett Univ. of Washington Morgansen, Kristi A Univ. of Washington Tsukamaki, Takashi The Boeing Company 17:20-17:40 FrC09.5 On Robust Control Algorithms for Nonlinear Network Consensus Protocols pp. 5062-5067 Hui, Qing Georgia Inst. of Tech Haddad, Wassim M Georgia Inst. of Tech Bhat, Sanjay P Indian Inst. of Tech. - Bombay  FrC10 Cascade I \(A Switched Nonlinear Systems Lecture Session Chair: Cortes, Jorge Univ. of California at San Diego Co-Chair: Najson, Federico Univ. de la Rep˙blica 16:00-16:20 FrC10.1 Robust H-Infinity Control for a Class of Uncertain Switched Nonlinear Systems Using Constructive Approach pp. 5068-5073 


Li, Li-li Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC10.2 Average Dwell-Time Method to L2-Gain Analysis and Control Synthesis for Uncertain Switched Nonlinear Systems pp. 5074-5079 Wang, Min Northeast Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 16:40-17:00 FrC10.3 H_infinity Control for a Class of Non-Minimum-Phase Cascade Switched Nonlinear Systems pp. 5080-5085 Wang, Min Northeast Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC10.4 Applications of a Model Matching Framework in Switched Systems pp. 5086-5091 Jiang, Shengxiang Univ. of California, Santa Barbara Voulgaris, Petros G Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 17:20-17:40 FrC10.5 Fast-Switching Pulse Synchronization of Chaotic Oscillators pp. 5092-5097 Fiorilli, Francesca Pol. Univ Porfiri, Maurizio Pol. Univ  FrC11 Cascade I \(B Modeling and Simulation Lecture Session Chair: Braatz, Richard D Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign Co-Chair: Ou, Yongsheng Lehigh Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC11.1 Stack-Level Validation of a Semi-Analytic Channel-To-Channel Fuel Cell Model for Two-Phase Water Distribution Boundary Value Co ntrol  pp. 5098-5103 McCain, Buz Univ. of Michigan Siegel, Jason Univ. of Michigan Stefanopoulou, Anna G Univ. of Michigan 16:20-16:40 FrC11.2 Modeling and Simulation of PEM Fuel Cell with Bond Graph and 20sim pp. 5104-5108 Peraza, Cesar Inst. Univ. TecnolÛgico Valencia Diaz, Jose Gregorio Univ. de Carabobo Arteaga-Bravo, Francisco J Univ. de Carabobo Villanueva, Carlos Univ. de Carabobo Gonzalez-Longatt, Francisco UNEFA 16:40-17:00 FrC11.3 An Improved Finite Element Model of Incremental Forming Using Conic Programming pp. 5109-5114 Raithatha, Ankor Mahendra Oxford Univ Duncan, Stephen Univ. of Oxford 17:00-17:20 FrC11.4 Study of Three Different Approaches for Development of Power System Aggregated Load Area Models pp. 5115-5120 Wei, Jianlin Univ. of Birmingham Wang, Jihong Univ. of Birmingham Wu, Q. Henry Univ. of Liverpool Jia, Nan Univ. of Liverpool Lu, Nan Univ. of Liverppol 17:20-17:40 FrC11.5 Adaptive Synchronization for a Class of Complex Delayed Dynamical Networks pp. 5121-5126 Zhong, Wei-Song Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ  FrC12 Orcas Nonlinear Control Analysis and Applications II Lecture Session Chair: Sanfelice, Ricardo G Univ. of California Santa Barbara Co-Chair: Reger, Johann Tech. Univ. Berlin 16:00-16:20 FrC12.1 Planning a Finite Time Transition from a Non-Stationary to a Stationary Point without Overshoot pp. 5127-5129 Reger, Johann Tech. Univ. Berlin 


16:20-16:40 FrC12.2 Stabilizing Control of Symmetric Affine Systems by Direct Gradient Descent Control pp. 5130-5135 Tamura, Kenichi Keio Univ Shimizu, Kiyotaka Keio Univ 16:40-17:00 FrC12.3 Transfer Equivalence and Reduction of Nonlinear Delta Differential Equations on Homogeneous Time Scale pp. 5136-5141 Casagrande, Daniele Imperial Coll. London Kotta, ‹lle Inst. of Cybernetics at TUT Wyrwas, Malgorzata Tallinn Univ. of Tech Tonso, Maris Inst. of Cybernetics at Tallinn Univ. of 17:00-17:20 FrC12.4 QFT Control for Vibration Reduction in Structures Equipped with MR Dampers pp. 5142-5144 Zapateiro, Mauricio Univ. of Girona Luo, Ningsu Univ. of Girona Karimi, Hamid Reza Univ. of Girona 17:20-17:40 FrC12.5 A Constructive Lyapunov Function for Controlling the Inverted Pendulum pp. 5145-5149 Aguilar-Ibanez, Carlos Centro De Investigacion En Computacion  FrC14 Adams Robust and Adaptive Control II Lecture Session Chair: Packard, Andrew K Univ. of California at Berkeley Co-Chair: Schofield, Brad Lund Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC14.1 An Initial Study of a Combined Robust and Adaptive Control Approach to Guaranteed Performance Flight Control pp. 5150-5155 Boskovic, Jovan D Scientific Systems Co. Inc Knoebel, Nathan Scientific Systems Company INC Mehra, Raman K Scientific Systems Co. Inc 16:20-16:40 FrC14.2 Adaptive Control Using Reduced-Order Observers pp. 5156-5161 Boskovic, Jovan D Scientific Systems Co. Inc Knoebel, Nathan Scientific Systems Company INC 16:40-17:00 FrC14.3 Adaptive Robust Control of Uncertain Neutral Time-Delay Systems pp. 5162-5167 Moezzi, Kaveh Concordia Univ Aghdam, Amir G Concordia Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC14.4 Practical Robust Adaptive Control: Benchmark Example pp. 5168-5173 Kuipers, Matthew Univ. of Southern California Ioannou, Petros A Univ. of Southern California 17:20-17:40 FrC14.5 Adaptive Hybrid Control for Omnidirectional Mobile Manipulators Using Neural Network pp. 5174-5179 Tan, Xiangmin Key Lab. of Complex SystemsandIntelligentScience,Inst. Auto Zhao, Dongbin Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences Yi, Jianqiang Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences Xu, Dong Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences  FrC15 Blakeley Uncertain Systems II Lecture Session Chair: Hu, Jianghai Purdue Univ Co-Chair: Zak, Stanislaw H Purdue Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC15.1 Control of Uncertain Systems with Guaranteed Performance pp. 5180-5185 Lian, Jianming Purdue Univ Sudhoff, Scott Purdue Univ Zak, Stanislaw H Purdue Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC15.2 Estimation of Model Uncertainties in Closed-Loop Systems pp. 5186-5191 Niemann, Henrik Tech. Univ. of Denmark Poulsen, Niels Kj lstad Tech. Univ. of Denmark 16:40-17:00 FrC15.3 Integral Controllability and Integrity for Uncertain Systems pp. 5192-5197 


H‰ggblom, Kurt E bo Akademi Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC15.4 Optimal Timing of Control Law Updates for Unstable Systems with Continuous Control pp. 5198-5203 Gustafson, Eric Univ. of Michigan Scheeres, Daniel The Univ. of Michigan 17:20-17:40 FrC15.5 Network-Based Robust H_infty Control of Continuous-Time Systems with Uncertainty pp. 5204-5209 Zhu, Xun-Lin Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ  FrC16 Cascade I \(C Spacecraft Control II Lecture Session Chair: Su, Chun-Yi Concordia Univ Co-Chair: Ghose, Debasish Indian Inst. of Science 16:20-16:40 FrC16.2 Time Optimal Attitude Control for a Rigid Body pp. 5210-5215 Lee, Taeyoung Univ. of Michigan Leok, Melvin Purdue Univ McClamroch, N. Harris Univ. of Michigan 16:40-17:00 FrC16.3 A Novel Application of an Extended State Observer for High Performance Control of NASAís HSS Flywheel pp. 5216-5221 Alexander, B.X.S Cleveland State Univ Rarick, Richard Cleveland State Univ Dong, Lili Cleveland State Univ 17:20-17:40 FrC16.5 Perturbed Feedback Linearization of Attitude Dynamics pp. 5222-5229 Bajodah, Abdulrahman H King Abdulaziz Univ  FrC17 Whidbey Observers for Nonlinear Systems Lecture Session Chair: Celikovsky, Sergej Acad. of Science Co-Chair: Subbarao, Kamesh The Univ. of Texas, Arlington 16:00-16:20 FrC17.1 Discrete-Time Mixed H2/H-Infinity Nonlinear Filtering pp. 5230-5235 Aliyu, M. D. S Concordia Univ Boukas, El-Kebir Ec. Pol. de Montreal 16:20-16:40 FrC17.2 A Minimal Dimension Observer for Global Frequency Estimation pp. 5236-5241 Carnevale, Daniele Univ. di Roma Astolfi, Alessandro Imperial Coll. London and Univ. of Rome 16:40-17:00 FrC17.3 Time Scaling of a Multi-Output Observer Form pp. 5242-5247 Wang, Yebin Univ. of Alberta Lynch, Alan Francis Univ. of Alberta 17:00-17:20 FrC17.4 Sliding Mode Adaptive State Observation for Time-Delay Uncertain Nonlinear Systems pp. 5248-5253 Raoufi, Reza Univ. of Alberta Zinober, Alan The Univ. of Sheffield 17:20-17:40 FrC17.5 Observer with Sample-And-Hold Updating for Lipschitz Nonlinear Systems with Nonuniformly Sampled Measurements pp. 5254-5257 Raff, Tobias Univ. of Stuttgart Allgower, Frank Univ. of Stuttgart  FrC18 Vashon I Delay Systems II Lecture Session Chair: Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila Co-Chair: Jankovic, Mrdjan Ford Res. and Advanced Engineering 16:00-16:20 FrC18.1 Semi-Algebraic Problem Approach for Stability Analysis of a Class of Nonlinear Stochastic Delay System pp. 5258-5263 Kashima, Kenji Tokyo Inst. of Tech 


16:20-16:40 FrC18.2 ISS Control Laws for Retarded Stabilizable Systems by Means of the Liapunov-Krasovskii Methodology pp. 5264-5269 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 16:40-17:00 FrC18.3 If a Retarded System Is Linearizable and Stabilizable, Then It Is Input-To-State Stabilizable pp. 5270-5275 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 17:00-17:20 FrC18.4 ISS Control Laws for Retarded Stabilizable Systems by Means of the Liapunov-Razumikhin Methodology pp. 5276-5281 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 17:20-17:40 FrC18.5 On the Zeros of Quasi-Polynomials with Single Delay pp. 5282-5286 Gumussoy, Suat The MathWorks Inc  


