A healthy mind, body, and spirit are vitally important to your learning process. Whether
                        you're experiencing a simple cold or would like tips on nutrition, the health center
                        is ready to help and is conveniently located on campus in the Health Building near
                        the Event Center. The center also provides wellness information for the SJSU community.
                     Campus police work 24-7 to provide the SJSU community with a safe and secure learning
                        environment through professional, progressive and superior police, emergency, transportation
                        and educational services. You can also find crime statistics, important safety information
                        and SJSU policies in the Annual Safety Report.
                     Our campus emergency communication system that provides information about what to
                        do and where to go during during a natural disaster or life-threatening emergency.
                        Register now to receive these important text, email, phone and TTY/TDD messages.
                     Personal and educational counselors are here to improve your emotional and interpersonal
                           well being and mental health, and to enhance your learning. We offer individual counseling,
                           training, workshops and support to help students develop essential life skills.The Accessible Education Center (AEC) provides both students and employees with accommodations
                        and services. The center works closely with almost every department and program on
                        campus to ensure access and empower students and staff with disabilities.
                     Employees with disabilities interested in appropriate accommodations should visit
                        the Employment Accommodations Resource Center (EARC) housed within the AEC. 
                     Find support and resolution resources if you believe you have experienced harassment
                        or discrimination. SJSU is committed to creating an atmosphere where everyone can
                        work and study free of discrimination and harrassment, so please do not hesitate to
                        use these resources.
                     Assembly Bill 1088 (pdf), requires that CSU campuses provide information to all new students on Sexual Assault
                        and Intimate Violence. Students and administrators collaborate to provide information
                        for prevention and education.
                     Intimate Violence & Sexual Assault Brochure (pdf)San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192408-924-10002014