College of Social SciencesSan Jos State UniversityOne Washington SquareSan Jos, CA 95192-0107Washington Square Hall, Rm103Voice: 408-924-5300FAX: 408-924-5303college-social-sciences@sjsu.eduIn a ceremony on Nov. 19, 2014, Dr. Jordan received the NASA Exceptional Public Service
                        Medal, for individuals who distinguish themselves by making outstanding contributions
                        to the NASA mission.
                     At this year's Spartan Service Celebration, the university paid tribute to the College
                        of Social Sciences' own Linda Garcia-Young for her exceptional contribution. Read more.
                     Four new faculty, Faustina DuCros (right), C.J. Duh, A.J. Faas (left), and Joshua
                        Troncoso, bring their expertise and teaching prowess to the College of Social Sciences.
                        Read more.CoSS unites an accomplished group of faculty, staff, and students. Here the College
                        gathers to pay tribute to outstanding achievements in teaching, research, and University
                        service.
                     CoSS students are involved in stimulating research that matters. Environmental Studies
                        students Ru Nanayakkara and Ariel Rivers pause after an aerial survey of coastal forests.
                     African American, Asian American, Mexican American, and Women's Studies, along with
                        other CoSS programs, spread knowledge of the struggles and achievements of diverse
                        communities.
                     All interested students are invited to visit the ACCESS Success Centerfor:JanEnglishLueck,Interim Dean of CoSSA new school year is beginning, bringing many changes to the College of Social Sciences.
                        Our Dean, Sheila Bienenfeld, retired in June and is happily adjusting to civilian
                        life. I will be Interim Associate Dean until a search is completed that will bring
                        us fresh talent and vision. For three years, I was Dean Bienenfelds Associate Dean.
                        For twenty years before that I had been an Anthropology Professor, working with our
                        students to understand the cultural complexity of our own region. Joining me in the
                        Deans office will be Lynne Trulio, a distinguished Environmental Studies scientist
                        and former Chair. She will be Acting Associate Dean.
                        
LynneTrulio,ActingAssociate DeanDuring this time of transition, we will be reflecting on what makes our College strong,
                        resilient and dedicated to improving the lives of individuals and communities around
                        us. Our College contains many core disciplines, Anthropology, Communications Studies,
                        Economics, Geography, History, Psychology, Political Science and Sociology that try
                        to grasp the fundamental patterns of human behavior. However, we also contain departments
                        and programs that transcend any one discipline and use multiple points of view to
                        grapple with social issues. African American Studies, Asian American Studies, Behavioral
                        Science, Environmental Studies, Global Studies, Jewish Studies, Mexican American Studies,
                        Organizational Studies, Social Science Teacher Preparation, Womens Studies and Urban
                        and Regional Planning all weave together diverse disciplines to consider who we are
                        and to improve the way we live. Running through all these fields is a passion to better
                        ourselves and our communities, and a keen practical intelligence committed to action
                        as well as scholarship. We are committed to interdisciplinary endeavors and to recognizing
                        the global interconnections all around us.
                     As the Fall 2014 semester unfolds, we will invite you to many familiar eventsSeptembers
                        Constitution Day, Octobers Halloween and Day of the Dead in ACCESS, and the November
                        Deans Symposium and Emeritus luncheon. We will also have open forums for the candidates
                        for the Deans position. Watch this website and join us!
                     JanEnglishLueck,Interim DeanSan Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192408-924-10002014