There's a strong connection between where and how students live and their learning.
                        San Jose State offers a number of living options for students.
                     San Jose State Universitys campus is located in the heart of downtown San Jose, the
                        nations 10th largest city. Where you live as a student has a big impact on your educational
                        experience.
                     San Jose State recognizes the connection between living and learning. The information
                        below will help you find a living situation that best fits your learning experience.
                     Student residences are more than a place to eat and sleep. At San Jose State, the
                        residence halls and apartments are living and learning communities. Visit the University Housing Services website for information about living on campus as well as programs and services designed
                           to extend students learning and personal growth beyond the classroom.All admitted first-time freshmen from outside a 30 mile radius of SJSU are required to live on campus for their first year. University Housing and the International House qualify as on-campus
                        housing to meet this requirement. Students required to live on campus will receive
                        first priority. Frosh not required to live on campus, transfer and graduate students
                        will be placed on a space-available basis.
                     San Jose States International House is a residence for 70 U.S. and international
                        students attending San Jose State University.I-House is located within a five-minute walk of the campus and is a large comfortable home
                        featuring friendly interaction among students of many cultures.
                     Since 1898, fraternities and sororities at SJSU have offered a fun atmosphere filled
                        with friendship, community service, and personal development that makes college life
                        a memorable experience. Many of SJSUs Greek organization offer housing for their
                        members. Find out more about Greek life from Student Involvement.
                     Surrounding San Jose States campus is the growing city of the same name. Its a city
                        with a little bit of everything and thats reflected in the diversity of its population.
                        For more information about the city and what there is to do, check out SanJose.com.
                     San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192408-924-10002014