Personal Health Records Success; Why Google Health failed and what does that mean for Microsoft HealthVault 
Abstract 
 
Ton Spil Industrial Engineering & Business Information Systems University of Twente a.a.m.spil@utwente.nl Rich Klein College of Business Florida International University  kleinrich@yahoo.com 
Five years of experimenting with Personal Health Records has not yielded the results that big companies like Google and Microsoft expected. Whereas Google pulled the plug on its product offering, Microsoft struggles to reach sufficient critical mass This study adopts a user perspective \(51 interviews in conjunction with grounded theory, to offer explanations why Google Hea lth failed and predictions relative to Microsoftês ability to reach a tipping point with respect to pr oduct/service viability 
Noteworthy, vendors ig nore relevance, or perceived usefulness when designing PHRs. Moreover low trust and high risks do not bode well for long-term success, with the widely used information systems success models often neglect ing the latter two critical dimensions 
1. Introduction 
Electronic personal health record \(PHR\Personal health record, or abbreviated to PHRs, offer users a variety of advantages aimed at patient empowerment Employing these systems, users  control their own 
information, creating a more balanced and complete view, compared to existing provider maintained health records rth e r P H R s  of f e r e x tra f e at u res an d  functionality such as making online appointments supplemental information specific to illnesses information about health care providers, and options for self-care possibilities, among othe  Sunyaev presen t s a fra m e w ork f o r e v al u ati n g P H Rs  based on functionality, subsequently adopting the 
model to evaluate both Google Health as Microsoft HealthVault. The posited framework, however, do not lend itself to evaluating a service based purely on enduser functionality. Accordin gly, the current study takes an end-user perspective employing a validated qualitative approach to match diverse quantitative measures The first product studied is Microsoft HealthVault which started in October of 2007 as a platform to store 
and maintain healthcare and fitness information. With its launch Craig Mundie of Microsoft notes 
wanted to see what Microsoft could do to anticipate the changes in healthcare and introduce technology that makes it more graceful to move from the old model to a  The second product studied is Google Health, which offered users the opportunity to manage their own health information. Introduced in 
we data driven model 
2008, and retired with at the start of 2012, Google Health failed to capture widespread adoption and achieved only limited us    Derived from behavioral models, the widely accepted Technology Acceptance Model \(TAM evaluate s the success of information system adoption through the lese of usefulness, ease of use, and attitude. The subsequent UTAUT model w as introdu ced to integrate efforts aimed at expanding the initial TAM 
model, although recent studies critique this model as well   B o th u s er ad opt ion  m odel s do n o t f u l l y  encompass all factors associated with user adoption particularly in the context of Internet-based systems where important domain specific factors; including trus  serv ice qu alit y   11 and risk 12 rem a i n  unaddressed. Here, many initiatives have tried to extend the TAM model   t o cov e r e 
2014 47th Hawaii International Conference on System Science 978-1-4799-2504-9/14 $31.00 © 2014 IEEE DOI 10.1109/HICSS.2014.353 2818 


orks to çrealize the full potential of securityé \(Markle, n.d 
Google Healthês failure and Microsoft s potential personal health record \(PHR need it systems\çtetheredé PHR to their healthcare providerês EHR. In the study limitations that obscure a clear interpretation of results sufficient financial, intellectual, and human capital resourcesé to support large scale initiative improve their health and manage their diseases   ongoing connection between patient and physician 
commerce specific success factors. For instance, an expansion of the seminal Delone and McLean Model of IS succe in cl u d es e-commerce specific measures. Despite sharing constructs and like propositions, however, no single model fully addresses all success factors of user adoption of e-commerce Employing a grounded literature search approach, we explore factors associated with user adoption of standalone PHR applications explaining these in greater detail through interviews with former Google Health and potential Microsoft HealthVault users. The next section provides background on personal health records. We then provide an overview of our research design and methodology, explaining success factors We subsequently review of our results. Last, we discuss the study findings and use our results to evaluate HealthVault for success A personal health record is a health record maintained and controlled by the individual patient [17 18  Information recorded in a PHR often includes medications, allergies, medical history, and so on Noteworthy, differences exist between a PHR and an electronic health record \(EHR\ic medical record \(EMR\ile one or more healthcare providers hold the latter two, an often cited definition for a personal health record provided by the Markle Foundation 1 notes that a is an Internet-based set of tools that allows people to access and coordinate their lifelong health information and make appropriate parts of it available to those who   E x p and i ng u pon th i s def i n itio n   T a ng et   n tend th at t h e f o r m  of a P H R can ran g e f r o m  a standalone application \(with no connection to other which offers patients a connection middle of the spectrum one can find hybrid PHR systems that can connect to other systems, acquiring and transmitting data. Figure 4 depicts the range of complexity in PHR systems [18    Figure 1: Range of complexity in PHR systems. From Tang et al   Unfortunately, within the existing literature, few clinical trials and systematic reviews concerning the effects of providing patients with the option to use and maintain personal health records, particularly standalone applications, exist \(a query of Pubmed resulted in only a few relev ant publications\Tenforde Jain, and Hickner n o ted li m ited e v idence o f  th e  value of PHRs, identifying only three randomized trials in their review. Furthermore, these trials plagued by their reported inconsistent results  Another recent publication reports on a pilot study comparing Google Health and Microsoft HealthVault when tethered to an advanced PHR maintained by the United States military [21  T h e s t u d y co n t e x t n a m e l y  a highly tethered system within the U.S. military undermines our ability to gain a greater understanding of the PHR adoption challenges in other contexts or as applicable to the general population. Unfortunately, as noted by Collins et al h i g h l y tet h e red P H R applications are limited to he althcare institutions with s fostering adoption within such environments. Accordingly given that such systems are not limited to a specific user population, exploring the adoption challenges to standalone PHR adoption co nstitutes important pursuit Researchers citing the benefits of PHRs, often return to an early work by Tang et al w h o onl y  n a m e a  number of or proposed, benefits. These include greater patient access to health information and data, with patients subsequently using information to   Moreover given patients ability to collaboratively track individual health issues with their providers lower communication barriers between patients and providers emerge. Another noted benefit lies in PHRs facilitation of Providers note that with continuous and ongoing, as opposed to episodic, interactions, the time to address emerging health issues shortens Finally, consistent with patient-accessible 
 
hypothetical 
The Markle Foundation is a charitable organization situated in the United States that w information and information technology to address critical public needs, particularly in the areas of health and national 
2. Personal Health Records 
1  
2819 


Research method introduction Selection of interviewees and analysis considerations 
Wagner et al.ês s believe that çmost patients just want to be cured 
3. Method 
EMRs/EHRs, Tang et al. contend that greater patient engagement in their individual health situation arises in the presence of increased medication adherence regiments Further evidence of this phenomenon is seen in a recent randomized trail of 267 patients from 11 practices. This effort reports greater concordance with medication regimens and a reduction in potential discrepancies for PHR users   Another potential benefit not named by Tang et al   bu t by ot h e rs \(e.g  1  f o cuses on patie n t  empowerment. Closely aligned with the notion of empowerment, Collins et al  o te in creased  patient engagement based upon their telephone survey of 17 organizations with tethered PHR applications Consistent with the engagement theme, Wagner et al  con d u cted a ran d o m ized  trial of 453 hy perte n s i on patients in PHR and no PHR groups finding no significant impact between groups; however, selfidentified active and frequent PHR users saw a significant reduction in blood pressure finding highlights the need to conduct work outside the tethered system context used for their stud  Finding specific to active sy stem users underscores our need to understand individual patient adoption issues beyond the tethered PHR context In addition to potential benefits espoused by authors, a number of concerns emerge within the existing literature. One concern commonly voiced with respect to EMR/EHR and PHR systems focuses security and/or privacy  A n ot h e r i m portant iss u e, rele v a n t to  standalone and tethered cont exts, involves the accuracy of PHR data. Here, Witry et al co n d u cted a  qualitative study using focus groups consisting of physicians, with the aim of identifying participant perceptions about PHRs. Physicians voiced a number of concerns with regard to the accuracy of the records Specifically, patients might input information that had not been verified by a professional and therefore might be incorrect. Patients might also record inappropriate information absent the ability to know what is significan  S u b seq u entl y  prov iders of ten f i n d  themselves burdened with large quantities of unprocessed data Phy s icia n s  fu rth e r n o ted  concerns that patients might even omit or alter their information to avoid possible consequences from their insurance carrier, as one exampl  T h e accurac y  concern contributed to physicians expressing a desire to control data input by re quiring providers validate information prior to updating records [1   Alternatively, in Liu et al  stu d y phy s ician s  indicated limited concerns wi th respect to patients family members, or caregivers deliberately altering records, as providers We employ an interview model-based research method called PRIMA previou sl y  ter m e d U SE IT 27   The qualitative research method is chosen to afford a more detailed understanding of success measures, by complementing a literature study with an interview protocol aimed at unraveling potential underlying enduser motivations. Noteworthy, few qualitative research initiatives in the area of e-health appear within the existing literature focusing on end user patient adoptors Drawing on the UTAUT  m odel w e  in cl u d e g e n d er  age, and experience as mo derators influencing the determinants of behavioral intention and actual use behavior. Our research involves consumer services making use voluntary. As prescribed by the research method, our interviews should represent homogenous groups  w h i c h w e  clas sify using t h e g e n d er age  and prior experience of inter viewees. Previous research shows experience positively influences adoption, with users adopting one service expressing a greater likelihood of adopting anothe  w i th perceptions evolving over time  Several studies have tried to extend existing models like TA  15  as w ell a s th e De lon e and  McLean model w h ile o t h e r w o r k h a s integrated  different models Despi t e sh ari n g co n s tr u cts a n d  like propositions, no single model fully addresses all success factors of user adoption within the e-health arena. Therefore, rather than draw upon a single model we extract success factors identified across the literature specific to differ ent models and theoretical perspectives, independently evaluating these factors using interview data. Success factors found by the extensive literature study serve as input for our research We completed a total of 51 interviews among potential users of Google Health \(27\nd Microsoft HealthVault 24\These interviews represented different homogenous groups n div i d u al outco m e s  were extracted by scanning interview transcripts for success factors identified in the existing literature. For each success factor we formulated hypotheses 
2820 


Process Relevance Information needs Means attitude 
Interview model and ana lysis constructs performance, social time, financial security 
   answer the question çwhat is the serviceé. While a usefulness as  
checking each against all interviews conducted \(scored as negative, not mentioned, positive   T h is process permitted us to triangulate data using different interviewers and different in terviewees across a variety of socio-demographic criteria thus improving validity   A ll in ter v i e w ers e m plo y ed th e sa m e instru ctio n s   1,5 hours training and standard interview framework The PRIMA model [27  co n s is ts o f f i v e  areas o f  analysis, namely, \(1\r ocess, \(2 elevance, \(3 Information needs, \(4\s and people, in addition to \(5\ttitude consists of a description of all activities users perform completing certain tasks. Rogers states that an innovation has to be compatible with existing values, experiences, and practices. Therefore unraveling current processes emerges as a good indicator of compatibility. Roge def i n e s  compatibility as "the degree to which an innovation is perceived as consistent with the existing values, past experiences, and need s of potential adopters  Subsequently, the degree to which an innovation is compatible can either speed up or retard its rate of adoption   Kar ahanna et al 30 v alidate th ree  distinct aspects of compatibility, namely, compatibility with prior experience, compatibility with existing work practices, and compatibility with values seeks to value for the user of the e-health subjective measure, users understand both what value means to them and when value exists. Accordingly relevance primarily covers our definition of perceived usefulness. Consistent with our literature study, the usefulness of the e-health service closely aligns with the usability of th  resu lti n g  i n  information relevant to both the usefulness and usability success factors. Research further posits that higher usability increases both perceived usefulness  and in tention to u s e 33  T h at said stu d ies s h o w  weak, or no support, for a direct effect on intention to us   Ven k atesh  i n es perceiv e d  the extent to which a person believes that using the system will enhance his or her job performance  In other words, the system must deliver some appreciable value. Distinct from perceived usefulne u s ef uln e ss is of ten n o t ob j e ctiv el y  measurable, but rather a subjective perception of an individual user. Noteworthy, perceived usefulness consistently predicts purchase intentions across a large variety of research contexts 36 3 8   describes which information users like to receive from the system and should align with the information the service delivers and captures Information quality infl uences both perceived usefulne  and percei v e d usab ilit y bot h w h ile  mediated by trust  R e s earchers o f ten m e a s u r e  information quality in terms of accuracy, timeliness completeness, relevance, and consistency Eg g e r   g i v es so m e  g u i deli n e s for in f o r m at ion al co n ten t   These guidelines encompass product and service information, information about the company, and information limiting user risks and people aspect examines the resources available to users given the assumption that hardware and support enable effective use of e-health services. In the cases of both Google and Microsoft, customer support constitutes the only direct contact with the end user alongside other indirect contacts through user access of Website resources System quality measures system design and construction aspects; however measures generally include usability, availability reliability, adaptability, and response time Serv ice  quality constitutes a key concern for service providers as reducing customer defections by only 5% bares the potential to boost profits by as much as 85% to 100   F u r th er, su perior serv ice qu alit y i n crease s  positive behavioral intentions while decreasing undesirable intensions as evident in stimulating customer retention and improved loyalty versus preventing bad word-of-mouth communications. Given the impersonal nature of e-commerce, service quality is especially important to such tr  B y  using an Internet-based service, users incur different risks. Lee [12 identif ies diff e r ent perceiv ed risk s f r o m  the user perspective, specifically and risks as distinct facets of perceived risk P e rcei v e d risks also h a ve a negative influence on perceived usefulness, user attitude, and intention to us e situ ations of higher risk, higher trust can reduce perceived risk  Finally explores user resistance to an innovation. Resistance is not by definition positive or negative, but can serve as a useful input in exposing system flaws W h ile r esis ta n c e i t sel f  does n o t  constitute the problem, resistance is often caused by underlying problems and tends to disappear in the presence of satisfactorily conditions. Accordingly questions asked as part of the interview focus on social pressures to use a given serv ice and levels of user trust 
2821 


4.Results 4.1. Microsoft HealthVault 
 user characteristics 
Perceived usefulness will positively influence user adoption of the e-health service Perceived usability will positi vely influence perceived usefulness 
PRIMA construct Covered success factor Process Perceived compatibility Relevance Perceived usefulness Perceived usability Information needs Information quality Means and people Service quality System quality Perceived risks Attitude Trust Social and personal influence 
individualês oneês attitudes specific to intention to use what is the value for the user service 
       
14 4 6 11 13 Table 2 Demographic data Microsoft HealthVault data Relevance focuses on 
Table 1: Expected success factors to be measured by PRIMA construct While not an explicit part of our interview questions we implicitly cover trust based upon attitude towards the e-commerce service and the Internet in general. Trust in e-commerce positively influences willingness to buy, further trust mitigates risk Social pressure, a subjective norm  in f l u e n c es     I n  an online context, social pressure can result from interactions with friends and acquaintances, but also from broader informational social influences lik e online reviews Looking at the PRIMA method all su cces s f a ctors  from our literature study appear either directly or indirectly and are shown in Table 1. We include the interview framework in Appendix 1 Between 2012 and 2013, we conducted a total of 24 interviews specific to Micro soft HealthVault. Table 2 reports the demographic data for this group of interviewees of the e-health While a subjective measure, the user both understands what value means to them and when value exists. Accordingly, relevance primarily covers our definition of perceived usefulness Consistent with our literature study, the usefulness of the e-commerce service closely aligns with the usability of the service  resu lti n g i n i n f o r m atio n relevant to both success factors. Hence, posit the following More than half of the interviewees offered negative responses specific to both hypotheses, seeing the primary of use of the system as time consuming especially inputting of information The user friendliness, however, was viewed positively That not withstanding, more than half of the participants failed to see any added value. Healthy interviewees in particular did not see any underlying need for such a system. For each of the success factors in Table 1 a similar analysis is performed and summarized in Table 3 with a description provided in this section The quality of information using Microsoft HealthVault was perceived positive. Most participants found the program useful and possessed a clear understanding of what information was readily accessible, the quality of the stored data, as well as the timeliness of system responses Some users found the program useful, even participants in good health Primarily due to the amount of time required to create the record, respondents reported a negative impression of perceived usability Table 3 provides highlights and an overview of our results. Noteworthy, despite positive perceptions almost all interviews expressed a 'HIGH' risk. This is potentially directly related low trust in combination with the safety of the system and the certainty of the vendor protecting privacy. Virtually none of the interviewees fully trusted the program with respect to the security of their medical data. As one interviewee 
Age Amount 15-25 25-45 45 Gender Amount Male Female 
2822 


Age Amount Gender Amount 15-25 15 Male 11 25-45 6 Female 16 45 6 Table 4 Demographic data Google Health data The usefulness of the Internet-based service emerged as the second significant issue within among the Google among participants. Despite some positive reactions, most of the interviewees failed to see direct value for themselves as result of using Google Health Most noted not holding their own health information thus mitigating the need to in the future, consistent with low compatibility with current practices Moreover participants noted their own relative good health as a reason to not use such a PHR system With respect to barriers to using Google Health, one participant noted 
ho can see all of this information, who has the right in certain circumstances to be allowed access, who does not  In 2012, some 27 interviews were conducted with potential users of Google Health Table 4 reports demographics for this sub-sample The information needs describ e which information the user likes to receive from the system and should align with the information the service delivers and captures Our interview explicitly covers the source and completeness of the information, while implicitly reviewing other information quality measures such as accuracy and timeliness. Our literature study demonstrated several connections between information quality and factors directly influencing the adoption of a service, leading to the following hypothesis More than half of the interviewees offered negative feedback specific to the hypothesis as \(1\e system was only available in English, \(2\e systems used too many medical terms, \(3\e quality of data input by patients, and the \(4\ that current information along was enough For each success factor in Table 1 we again identified specific results, which we summarize in Table 5 Privacy concerns again emerged as the greatest threshold for users with 23 out of 27 noting the issue as a significant concern. Out of all of the interviews emerges the view that users consider health information as very personal with a commercial company like Google untrustworthy when it comes to such information have any information to put onto Google Health, I really would want privacy guarantees before putting my information into the system to prevent my This sentiment illustrates the general opinion emerging from the collective interview data We highlight the main problems, or objection points, in Table 5. Users do not see the relevance of Google Health, expressing a predominantly negative attitude toward the product 
4.2. Google Health 
Success factor Microsoft Health Vault 
         
questioned, çw  in addition to the fact that I donêt information getting public on the internet 
Service quality  Information quality  System quality  Trust  Perceived usability  Perceived risks HIGH Perceived usefulness  Social and personal influence  Perceived compatibility  Table 3 Overview results Mic rosoft HealthVault  data One an essential aspect, namely social and personal influence, merged as important to the future success of the PHR Our assessment of all of the interviews concluded that a bad result can also be seen as positive We posit a relationship between the implementation of the application and outside influences. A positive external signal may see more people develop a more favorable impression of the system and thus potentially develop a more positive attitude about the product. In addition, negative signals to the greater marketplace often yield negative impacts 
The better the fit b etween information needs and information provided by the e-health service, the higher the user adop tion of the service 
2823 


as a çnew ol or later periods in oneês life 
 Google Health 
5. Analysis 6. Conclusions 
Table 5: Interview results Google Health The relevance of new information systems is seen as one of the most important success factors. Our results see perceived usefuln  an indicator of relevance negative in both the Google Health and Microsoft HealthVault cases. Despite po sitive perceptions of the information quality of Mic rosoft HealthVault, low relevance makes it potentially difficult for the product to ultimately succeed In both cases, Google Health and Microsoft HealthVault, interviewees viewed both system quality and service quality positively Consistent with Delone and McLean tog eth er w i t h t h e positi v e  information quality, favorable views of system and service bode well for the ultimate success of Microsoft HealthVault. That said, we contend that our study, not grounded in a tethered system context, shows less likely chances for success. Based upon the factors identified within our literature study, we question whether the IS success model should consider trust as fourth causal determinant The trust and perceived risk indicators are closely related in both the Google and Microsoft cases with trust negative and risk high. Turban [50  dem onstrat ed  that Internet-based information systems depend on trust to ultimately achieve success. Accordingly, as a driver of adoption, high risk and low trust serve as significant hindrances for both Google Health and HealthVault to achieve widespread adoption As with many studies, social and personal influence as an influence factor within our study  Ou r qu alitati v e  analysis found social and pe rsonal influence negative for both Google Health and Microsoft HealthVault Neither system is well known or widely used in The Netherlands, where the current study was conducted Therefore, few peers or healthcare professionals likely promote either system. Moreover, conducting this work outside of a tethered PHR system context; i.e not recruiting participants through a healthcare system hospital, or other healthcare related environment; likely impacts the healthcare pr ovider social and personal influence commonly experienced by participants. Here again, our context mirrors the general population of potential standalone PHR users As we already know, Google Health did not succeed Our analyses based upon the literature study and interview data supports the contention that Microsoft HealthVault will similarly fail to reach a critical mass of users, at least as a standalone product offering in a market such as The Netherlands The primary reason we see for the lack of success lies in the relevance of both PHR applications. Relevance perceived usefulness, performance expectancy, relative advantage, and net benefits all focus on the value of a new information system. These factors have failed to draw the attention of vendor s developing standalone personal health records applications Low trust and high risk emerge as two additional significant reasons for the failure of personal health records, given the analysis of the Google and Microsoft products. Together these factors might be considered success factor and validated for standalone as well as tethered applications Further, healthy people are una ware of personal health records, and therefore, social and personal influences will likely play a negative role in the success of Microsoft HealthVault and serve as one potential reason for the failure of Google Health. While healthy individuals may not see a need for or interest in PHRs demonstrating benefits of long-term and accurate PHRs might frame such applications as a beneficial planning to In addition to continuing to examine the PHR phenomenon outside strict t ethered system contexts future studies of personal health records should focus on designing applications that address factors specifically relevant to patien t and caregiver end users within untethered contexts. Trust and risk should further be studied and validated as a significant determinant of success under the greater umbrella of reliability 
Service quality  Information quality  System quality  Trust  Perceived usability  Perceived risks High Perceived usefulness  Social and personal influence  Perceived compatibility  
2824 


7. References 
This study aims for a qualitative reasoning why PHR has not been successful so far. The amount of interviews \(51\ valid to support this reasoning but not enough to generalize to larger populations or dissimilar contexts Personal Health Records Empowering Consumer 76-86  2  Potential of electronic personal health records 330-333  Su ny aev  D C Evaluation Framework for Personal Health Records: Microsoft HealthVault vs pp. 1-10  le. \(2 011 Ju n e 24  Retrieved from GoogleOfficialBlog:http://googleblog.blogspot.nl/2011 06/update-on-google-health-and-google.html  19 89 P e rceiv e d u s efu l n e ss  perceived ease of use and user acceptance of information technology 319 340  Venk ate sh V., Mo rris M. G., Davi s G. B   Davis, F. D. \(2003\cceptance of Information Technology: Toward a Unified View 425-478  illiam s, M. D., Ra n a  N. P., Dwivedi, Y. K Lal, B. \(2011\ UTAUT Really Used or Just Cited for the Sake of It? A Systematic Review of Citations of riginating Article. In  paper 231  iv ed i, Y., Ra n a N., C h en, H  W illia m s, M  2011\ Meta-analysis of the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology \(UTAUT 155-170  Ch erv a n y D. H. \(2 001 2002\ What Trust Means in E-Commerce Customer Relationships: An Interdisciplinary Conceptual Typology 35 59  re, C. L Krach e r, B  W ied enbeck S  2003\line trust: concepts, evolving themes, a model 737 758  e e, G G    L i n   H.F. \(2005 C u s t o m er  perceptions of e-service quality in online shopping 161-176  L e e, M C 2009  Factors inf l u e n c i n g the  adoption of internet banking: An integration of TAM and TPB with perceived risk and perceived benefit  130 141  Han L   Jin  Y  200 9  R e v i e w of Technology Acceptance Model in the E-commerce Environment pp 28 31\, China: IEEE  en, D., Karahan n a E Stra u b D. W 20 03  Trust and TAM in Online Shopping: An Integrated Model 51-90  Ch en L  d Gillenson  M L., & Sherrell, D. L 2002\ticing online customers: an extended technology acceptance perspective 705-719  DeL on e, W  2003 T h e DeL on e an d Mc L e a n  model of information systems success: a ten-year update 9 30   Measuring the impact of patient portal California Healthcare Foundation  T a n g P C A s h J S., B ates, D.W Ov erh a g e  M Sands, D.Z. \(2006\. Personal health records definitions, benefits, and strategies for overcoming barriers to adoption. Jour nal of the American medical informatics association 13\(2\pp. 121-126  W itry M.J Do u c ette, W  R., Dal y  J  M., L e v y  B.T., & Chrischilles, E.A. \(2010\ily physician perceptions of personal health records. Perspectives in health information management 7, 1d. PMCID PMC2805556  T e nf orde, M J ain, A Hick n e r, J  200 8 T h e value of personal health re cords for chronic disease management: what do we know? Family medicine 43\(5\, pp. 351-354  Do, N. V B a rn h ill, R., H e er m a n n D o K. A  Salzman, K. L., & Gimbel, R. W. 2011. The Military Health System's Personal Health Record Pilot with Microsoft HealthVault and Google Health 
1  Ball, E. F., Carla Smith, N. F., & and Richard S Ba 
Limitations Journal of Healthcare Information Management Vol. 21, No. 1 BMJ Volume 335 43rd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences An update on Google Health and Google PowerMeter MIS Quarterly 13\(3 MIS Quarterly Vol. 27, No. 3 ECIS Proceedings Governance and Sustainability in Information Systems Managing the Transfer and Diffusion of IT International Journal of Electronic Commerc e / Winter , Vol. 6, No 2 Int. J. Human-Computer Studies 58 International Journal of Retail & Distribution Management, Vol. 33, No. 2 Electronic Commerc e Research and Applications 8 International Conference on Management of e-Commerce and e-Government MIS Quarterly, Vol. 27, No. 1 Information Management 39 Journal of Management Information Systems 19 Journal of 
 
kalar, M. \(2007 s Pagliari, D. D. \(2007  2010 Google Health  UTAUTês O      Emont, S. \(2011 s: What the literature tells us 
2825 


      2005 MIS Quarterly 
18\(2 118-124  Collin s, S. A Va w d re y   D. K., Kudaf k a  R  Kuperman, G. J. 2011. Policies for Patient Access to Clinical Data Via PHRs: Current State and Recommendations 18\(Suppl 1\-i7  Sch n i pper, J  L Gandh i T  K W ald  J  S Grant R. W., Poon, E. G., Volk, L. A., Businger, A Williams, D. H., Siteman, E., Buckel, L., & Middleton B. 2012. Effects of an Online Personal Health Record on Medication Accuracy and Safety: A Clusterrandomized Trial 19\(5\: 728-734  W a gn er, P  J., Dias, J   Ho w a rd, S., Kin tzi g e r, K W., Hudson, M. F., Seol, Y.-H., & Sodomka, P. 2012 Personal Health Records and Hypertension Control: A Randomized Trial 19\(4\: 626-634  L i u L S., S h i h P C  Ha y es, G.R 2011 Barriers to the adoption and use of personal health record systems. Proceedings of the 2011 iConference pp. 363-370. DOI: 10.1145/1940761.1940811  Spil T A Mich e l Ve rk erk e M. B 201 2 Dutch  Eburon, Delft  T A Schu r ing  R W  Mich e l Ver k e rk e  M. B. \(2004\. Electronic prescription system: do the professionals USE IT 32-55  R o g e rs E. M. \(198 3 New York: Free Press  Easti n M. S 2002 f u s i on of e co mm erce a n  analysis of the adoption of four e-commerce activities 251 267  an n a E.; Ag ar w al R   An gs t, C 2006  Reconceptualizing Compatibility Beliefs," MIS Quarterly, \(30: 4  l G a h ta n i, S. S. \(2011 Mo deli n g t h e electron ic  transactions acceptance using an extended technology acceptance model 47 77  C respo, A  H. \(2008  plain i n g B2C e commerce acceptance: An integrative model based on the framework by Gatignon and Robertson 212-224  B h attach e rj ee, A 20 00 c cep tance of E Commerce Services: The Case of Electronic Brokerages 411-420  C h en  L  D   T a n  J. \(200 4 T e ch n o log y  Adaptation in E-commerce: Key Determinants of Virtual Stores Acceptance 74-86  Sh ih H P 2004  e m pirical s t u d y on predicting user acceptance of e-shopping on the Web 351-368  Ven k ates h V. A 2000 A th eoretical ex te n s io n of the Technoly Acceptance Model: Four longitudal field studies  186-204  Wan g Y.-S. \(2008  A s s e s s i ng e co m m e rce  systems success: a respecification and vali on of the DeLone and McLean model of IS success 529 557  Pav l ou P. A  20 03  C o n s um er A c ceptan ce o f Electronic Commerce: Integrating Trust and Risk with the Technology Acceptance Model 69 103  Green   D. T    P e ars on J  M. \(2011 teg rating website usability with the electronic commerce acceptance model 181 199  h ou T  Z h ang  S 200 9 Ex a m in in g th e  Effect of E-commerce Website Quality on User Satisfaction pp. 418-421 Nanchang: IEEE  Eg g e r, F. N 200 1 Aff e cti v e Desi g n o f E commerce User Interfaces: How to Maximise Perceived Trustworthiness London: Asean Academic Press  Reichh eld F. F  Sa sser, W J  199 0 Z e ro  Defections: Quality Comes to Services 105-111  Z e ut h a m l V B e rr y L   P a rasu ra m a n A   1996\The behavior consequences of service quality Journal of Marketing 60, 31-46  Kim  C., Gallier s, R. D Sh i n N R y oo, J  H   Kim, J. \(2012\ influencing Internet shopping value and customer repurchase intention 374 387  L iette L a p o in te  S u zan n e  Ri v a rd A Multilevel Model of Resi stance to Information Technology Implementation 461-49 
the American Medical Informatics Association Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association De waarde van informatie in de gezondheidswereld Int. J. Healthcare Technology Management, Vol. 6, No. 1 Diffusion of Innovations Telematics and Informatics 197 Applied Computing and Informatics 9 Interacting with Computer 20 IEEE Transactions on Systemens, Man And Cybernetics - Part A Systems and Humans, Vol 30, No. 4 European Management Journal Vol.22, No. 1 Information % Management 41 Management Science, Vol. 46, No. 2 Info Systems 18 International Journal of Electronic Co mmerce, Vol. 7, No. 3 Beh aviour & Information Technology Vol. 30, No. 2 Second International Symposium on Electronic Commerce and Security International Conference on Affective Human Factors Design Harvard Business Review Electronic Commerce Research and Applications 11 
2826 


Information & Management 48 Case study research: Design and methods \(2nd ed Journal of Business Research 63 Behavior and Information Technology Vol. 20, No. 1 International Journal of Electronic Commerce Vol. 6 Qualitative data analysis: An expanded sourcebook Social Science Research:Principles, methods and practice 
Sia, C. L. \(2011\onsumerês decision    
PRIMA construct Success factors expected to be measured Examples of questions asked Process Perceived compatibility Which health records you regularly use?  Are you using a fixed sequence of actions Which alternatives you have to find information Relevance Perceived usefulness Perceived usability Which functions of a PHR are most important for you? Which parts of the system you experience as a bottleneck? Do you have suggestions for improvements Informati on needs Information quality Which information you need to get from the service? Do you get sufficient information from the system? Is the information quality sufficient Means and people Service quality System quality Perceived risks Do you get sufficient support? Is the system reliable Does the system offer enough privacy Attitude Trust Social and personal influence Do you think IT is necessary to improve health in formation? Do you feel social pressure of using the service? How much time do you want to spend for learning to use the service Appendix 1: Interview framework 
 L e e, M. K., Sh i, N., Ch eung, C. M., Lim, K. H to shop online The moderating role of positive informational social influence 185 191  R  K. \(199 4 Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage  Her n  ndez, B  J i m  n e z, J  Ma rtÌn M. J  2010\Customer behavior in electronic commerce The moderating effect of e-purchasing experience 964 971  Freu d en th al D. \(2001  A g e diff ere n ces  in th e  performance of 9-22   T u rban, M. K 20 1 1  A T r u s t Mo del f o r  Consumer Internet Shopping 75 91  Miles, M.B  and Huber m an A  M Sage, 1994  attach e rj ee, A 2012  Creative Commons e-book 
2827 


Figure 4  Payload Allocation Figure 5  Procurement vs Hosted Payloads Hosted payloads vs 100 procurement This case study focuses on the impact of including hosted payloads as part of the system Figure 5 presents an extended representation of the tradespace where hosted payload architectures are included The 002rst immediate conclusion that can be drawn is that based on the cost model from hosted payloads offer the possibility of signi\002cant cost reductions 050between 15 and 30%\051 As a result all architectures on the Pareto front rely on hosted payload architectures On the other hand concerns about using hosted payload assets for critical applications like astronaut support have been 003agged as a major caveat In this case an optimal solution would entail using a portfolio of hosted payloads and privately owned satellites and schedule the communications through ones or the others according to operational constraints Therefore building this portfolio can be done by analyzing what communication payloads are better suited for hosted payload con\002gurations Figure 6 presents the tradespace of architectures that mix hosted payload and procured assets Results indicate that including hosted payload assets in the system does not have a major impact on its performance but requires disaggregating the monolithic satellites identi\002ed as optimal in the previous case study That being the case the next questions arise Figure 6  Portfolios of hosted payload and procured assets Which payload obtains better savings when being hosted How many payloads do you want to 003y in a hosted payload approach The answer for the 002rst question can be obtained by analyzing the non-dominated architectures from 002gure 6 and estimating the cost savings when hosting the different types of antennas that are considered in this analysis Results indicate that hosting an optical payload can potentially save an 28 of the cost while a low data rate antenna 050S-band\051 only obtains a 16 cost reduction 050note that these numbers are based on the system life-cycle cost and are heavily in\003uenced by the hosted payload cost model\051 Therefore it seems to be more advisable to put high data rate payloads like optical terminals in commercial satellites and retain control of S-band communications 050which in turn ensures that contingency event will be addressed by privately owned assets not constrained by the operational limitations of host platforms\051 Finally 002gure 7 presents the tradespace of hosted payload architectures color coded by the number of antennas that are being hosted By looking at the Pareto front it can be seen that almost all architectures host one single antenna as opposed to two in order to minimize the burden on the host platform This burden is also contingent on the mass and power of the hosted communication payload This is the main reason why optical terminals become so attractive for hosted payload architectures as opposed to low frequency systems that require big parabolic antennas and power ampli\002ers to close the link budgets 6 C ONCLUSION Summary This paper has presented the 002rst set of results obtained through the developed architectural tool to evaluate space communication networks It has 002rst provided a high level overview of the tool with a description of four main constitutive elements An STK model an architecture generator an architecture evaluator and a resource manager Next it has described the newly developed scheduling algorithm based on a rule-based expert system that ef\002ciently allocates the network resources to satisfy near-Earth mission communication requirements Then a discussion on the conducted validation exercise has 11 


Figure 7  Portfolios of hosted payload and procured assets been presented in order to gain some level of con\002dence on the results that the tool outputs This discussion has focused on the validation of the scheduling algorithm by benchmarking it with operational schedules from the TDRSS Finally this paper has presented two case studies for future implementations of the TDRSS system Based on a demand forecast for the network a 002rst case study has considered the problem of selecting the frequency band to be supported and how to allocate them into the relay satellites It has been shown that maximum performance architectures require a mix of optical and RF payloads that support high throughput communications as well as reliable low data rate communications If the traditional procurement strategy is assumed 050NASA buys and operates the relay satellites\051 then monolithic architectures are preferable unless more than two high gain antennas render the resulting satellite con\002guration too complex In turn the second case study has extended this analysis by introducing architectures with hosted payloads It has been shown that according to the current available pricing model hosted payload architectures are clearly preferable than the traditional procurement strategy with cost savings between 15 to 30 for the same level of system performance It has then been discussed the advantages of having mixed procured and hosted payload architectures as a compromise to obtain networks with reduced lifecycle costs that can still address the requirements of highly sensitive and reliable applications Results have demonstrated that high data rate payloads 050speci\002cally optical payloads\051 are the best candidates to be hosted 050with savings up to 28%\051 thanks to their reduced mass and power requirement On the other hand low data rate communication payload should be allocated in privately owned satellites as they require bigger antennas and power ampli\002ers that increase the burden on the host platform Future Work The main streams of future work are as twofold On one hand additional features should be added to the model in order to better capture the complexity of the network con\002gurations 050e.g coupling between the costs of the communication payloads depending on the level of on-orbit processing the they perform\051 Additionally the size of the tradespace is currently limited to less than two thousand architectures due to computational limitations a stringent limitation given the possible combinations from the identi\002ed architectural decisions The solution currently under development is to include a genetic algorithm that alleviates this problem by iteratively generates new populations of architectures by combining the best previously evaluated networks On the other hand the other main stream of future work is related to exercising the tool in a variety of architectural decisions and mission scenarios In the presented case studies only geosynchronous constellations were considered although the tool allows comparing them with systems that place relays in MEO and LEO orbits Additionally the tool can also provide insight in valuing inter-satellite links and how the cost of putting in orbit their extra communication payloads can be leveraged by reducing the number of operating ground stations Moreover couplings between the payload allocation and fractionation strategy should also be further explored so as to understand if monolithic architectures still become preferable if relay satellites can be decomposed in clusters of independent antennas and payloads Finally supplementary what-if analysis can be conducted based on 0501\051 the demand forecast for the 2020-2030 time frame 0502\051 granted spectrum allocations to NASA and 0503\051 technology improvements that increase the spectral ef\002ciency of the communication payloads 12 


A PPENDIX Table 7  Acronyms Arch Architecture CER Cost Estimating Relationship DESDYNI Deformation Ecosystem Structure and Dynamics of Ice DSN Deep Space Network EIRP Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power GEO Geosynchronous Orbit GRTG Guam Remote Ground Terminal GSFC Goddard Space Flight Center HD High De\002nition HP Hosted Payloads ISL Intersatellite Link ISS International Space Station LCC Life Cycle Cost LEO Low Earth Orbit MEO Medium Earth Orbit MIT Massachusetts Institute of Technology MOC Mission Operating Center MPCV Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle NASA National Aeronautics and Space Administration NCCDS Network Control Center Data System NDA Non-Disclosure Agreement NEN Near Earth Network NISN NASA Integrated Services Network NOAA National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration RF Radio Frequency SA Single Access SBRS Space based Relay Study SCaN Space Communication and Navigation SN Space Network STGT Second TDRSS Ground Terminal STK Systems ToolKit TDRSS Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System TT&C Telemetry Tracking and Command USGS United States Geological Survey WSGT White Sands Grount Terminal A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This project is funded by NASA under grant NNX11AR70G Special thanks for Gregory Heckler David Milliner and Catherine Barclay at NASA GSFC for their help getting the dataset and their feedback on our study R EFERENCES   National Aeronautics and Space Administration 223Space Communications and Navigation 050SCaN\051 Network Architecture De\002nition Document 050ADD\051 Volume 1  Executive Summary,\224 Tech Rep 2011   227\227 A v ailable http   www.nasa.gov/directorates/heo/scan   e a Sanchez Net Marc 223Exploring the architectural trade space of nasas space communication and navigation program,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2013 IEEE  2013   P Brown O  Eremenko 223Fractionated space architectures a vision for responsive space,\224 Tech Rep   S M V  D C E Teles J 223Overview of TDRSS,\224 Advances in Space Research  vol 16 pp 67\22676 1995   Analytical Graphics Inc A v ailable http   http://www.agi.com   D Selva Valero 223Rule-Based System Architecting of Earth Observation Satellite Systems by,\224 Ph.D dissertation Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2012   K D W  S P Davidson A 223Pricing a hosted payload,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2012 IEEE  2012   W J Larson and J R Wertz Space mission analysis and design  Microcosm Inc 1992   M Adinol\002 and A Cesta 223Contributed Paper Heuristic Scheduling of the DRS Communication System,\224 vol 8 1995   National Aeronautics and Space Administration Space Network Users Guide 050 SNUG 051  2007 no August 2007   e a Tran J J 223Evaluating cloud computing in the nasa desdyni ground data system,\224 in Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Software Engineering for Cloud Computing  2011 B IOGRAPHY  Marc Sanchez Net is currently a second year M.S student in the department of Aeronautics and Astronautics at MIT His research interests include machine learning algorithms and rule-based expert systems and their suitability to the 002elds of system engineering and space communication networks Prior to his work at MIT Marc interned at Sener Ingenieria y Sistemas as a part of the team that develops and maintains FORAN a CAD/CAM/CAE commercial software for shipbuilding Marc received his degrees in both Industrial engineering and Telecommunications engineering in 2012 from Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya Barcelona Dr Daniel Selva received a PhD in Space Systems from MIT in 2012 and he is currently a post-doctoral associate in the department of Aeronautics and Astronautics at MIT and an adjunct Assistant Professor in the Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Cornell University His research interests focus on the application of multidisciplinary optimization and arti\002cial intelligence techniques to space systems engineering and architecture Prior to MIT Daniel worked for four years in Kourou 050French Guiana\051 as a member of the Ariane 5 Launch team Daniel has a dual background in electrical engineering 13 


and aeronautical engineering with degrees from Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya in Barcelona Spain and Supaero in Toulouse France He is a 2007 la Caixa fellow and received the Nortel Networks prize for academic excellence in 2002 Dr Bruce Cameron is a Lecturer in Engineering Systems at MIT and a consultant on platform strategies At MIT Dr Cameron ran the MIT Commonality study a 16 002rm investigation of platforming returns Dr Cameron's current clients include Fortune 500 002rms in high tech aerospace transportation and consumer goods Prior to MIT Bruce worked as an engagement manager at a management consultancy and as a system engineer at MDA Space Systems and has built hardware currently in orbit Dr Cameron received his undergraduate degree from the University of Toronto and graduate degrees from MIT Dr Edward F Crawley received an Sc.D in Aerospace Structures from MIT in 1981 His early research interests centered on structural dynamics aeroelasticity and the development of actively controlled and intelligent structures Recently Dr Crawleys research has focused on the domain of the architecture and design of complex systems From 1996 to 2003 he served as the Department Head of Aeronautics and Astronautics at MIT leading the strategic realignment of the department Dr Crawley is a Fellow of the AIAA and the Royal Aeronautical Society 050UK\051 and is a member of three national academies of engineering He is the author of numerous journal publications in the AIAA Journal the ASME Journal the Journal of Composite Materials and Acta Astronautica He received the NASA Public Service Medal Recently Prof Crawley was one of the ten members of the presidential committee led by Norman Augustine to study the future of human space\003ight in the US Bernard D Seery is the Assistant Director for Advanced Concepts in the Of\002ce of the Director at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center 050GSFC\051 Responsibilities include assisting the Deputy Director for Science and Technology with development of new mission and measurement concepts strategic analysis strategy development and investment resources prioritization Prior assignments at NASA Headquarters included Deputy for Advanced Planning and Director of the Advanced Planning and Integration Of\002ce 050APIO\051 Division Director for Studies and Analysis in the Program Analysis and Evaluation 050PA&E\051 of\002ce and Deputy Associate Administrator 050DAA\051 in NASA's Code U Of\002ce of Biological and Physical Research 050OBPR\051 Previously Bernie was the Deputy Director of the Sciences and Exploration Directorate Code 600 at 050GSFC\051 Bernie graduated from Fair\002eld University in Connecticut in 1975 with a bachelors of science in physics with emphasis in nuclear physics He then attended the University of Arizona's School of Optical Sciences and obtained a masters degree in Optical Sciences specializing in nonlinear optical approaches to automated alignment and wavefront control of a large electrically-pumped CO2 laser fusion driver He completed all the course work for a PhD in Optical Sciences in 1979 with emphasis in laser physics and spectroscopy He has been a staff member in the Laser Fusion Division 050L1\051 at the Los Alamos National Laboratories 050LANL\051 managed by the University of California for the Department of Energy working on innovative infrared laser auto-alignment systems and infrared interferometry for target alignment for the HELIOS 10 kilojoule eight-beam carbon dioxide laser fusion system In 1979 he joined TRW's Space and Defense organization in Redondo Beach CA and designed and developed several high-power space lasers and sophisticated spacecraft electro-optics payloads He received the TRW Principal Investigators award for 8 consecutive years Dr Antonios A Seas is a Study Manager at the Advanced Concept and Formulation Of\002ce 050ACFO\051 of the NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center Prior to this assignment he was a member of the Lasers and Electro-Optics branch where he focused on optical communications and the development of laser systems for space applications Prior to joining NASA in 2005 he spent several years in the telecommunication industry developing long haul submarine 002ber optics systems and as an Assistant Professor at the Bronx Community College Antonios received his undergraduate and graduate degrees from the City College of New York and his doctoral degree from the Graduate Center of the City University of New York He is also a certi\002ed Project Management Professional 14 


 





 17  Jar r e n  A   B al d w i n  is  a  Ch i c a g o  n a t i v e  a n d  c u r r e n t l y  se r v e s a s t h e  l e a d  E l e c t r i c a l  En g i n e e r  a t  B a y  A r e a  s t a r t u p   Oc u l e v e  I n c   He  g r a d u a t e d  fr o m  t h e  U n i v e r s i t y  o f Il l i n o i s  wi t h  a  B  S   i n  2 0 0 9  an d  r ecei v ed  an  M  S   i n  El e c t r i c a l  En g i n e e r i n g  f r  St a n f o r d  U n i v e r s i t y  i n  2 0 1 2   Ja r r e n  d e v e l o p e d  h a r d w a r e  a n d  so f t w a r e  sy st e m s f o r  a  w i d e  ra n g e  o f  f i e l d s   i n c l u d i n g  s p a c e  s c i e n c e  s y s t e m s  a n d  m e d i c a l  de vi c e s  a s  a N A S A  A m es  i nt e r n i n t he  In t e l l i g e n t  S y s t e m s     1  2  3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   


                        


                           


   












































     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


