  adlinegv@gmail.com 
Multilevel Hybrid Graph Partitioning Algorithm Dr.S.Padmavathi  Adline George   Associate Professor PG Student Department of Computer Science and Engineering Thiagarajar College of Engineering Madurai, India  spmcse@tce.edu 
  
204Balanced graph partition is a type of graph partitioning problem that divides the given graph into components, such that the components are of about the same size and there are few connections between the components. The existing approaches partition the graph initially in a random 
Abstract 
manner which has a very high impact on determining the final quality of the solution. Recently, Multilevel Partitioning methods are proven to be faster among other approaches. This paper proposes a multilevel hybrid algorithm for balanced graph partitioning. Here graph is initially partitioned using Balanced Big method in order to improve the initial solution quality Further, the quality of the obtained solution is improved using local search refinement procedure. The experimental results indicate that the relatively good initial partitions, when subjected to local search techniques like tabu search and hill climbing results in better solutions. The experimental results also indicate that for the proposed approach, when the number of partitions 
increase \(are high\e quality of the solution is better than the currently available solutions reported in the existing approaches 
Keywords\204Random Initial Partition, Local Search, Hill Climbing, Refinement, solution quality 
 I NTRODUCTION  Graph partitioning falls under the category of NP-Hard problems. Important applications of graph partitioning include scientific computing, partitioning various stages of a VLSI design circuit and task scheduling in multi-processor systems 2   Re cen t l y  th e u n i f o rm ba lan ce d g r a p h  p ar titi on  p r ob l em  has gained importance due to its application for clustering and detection of cliques in social, pathological and biological 
 
I 
networks [2   T h e r ef or e in r ecen t y ears m an y ef f o rts h a v e  been made in devising a number of efficient and powerful heuristics to find reasonably good partitions. The existing approaches for graph partitioning from the literature are discussed below. Breadth First Search \(BFS\ method is the simplest graph partitioning technique [1 app ro ac h  i s  generally applied to partition the graph into two partitions i.e 
k=2 
Though it is simple, it is efficient only for planar graphs and overlay graphs. Spectral partitioning methods a r e  efficient and the most widely used technique. But due to the fact that it consumes too much of time for computing the Eigen vectors for the adjacency matrix of the graph, this method 
cannot be applied for larger graphs. Geometric partitioning methods [17 ex pl oit th e n e t w ork f l ow tech n i qu e an d i d en tif y  the cut of the graph. In graph theory, cut is a partition of the vertices of a graph into two disjoint subsets that are joined by at least one edge. Partition of graph identified using geometric algorithms tend to be fast but often yield partitions that are worse than those obtained by spectral methods [17  T h es e  algorithms are applicable only if the coordinates are available for the vertices of graph. The geometry of the graph is not considered in many applications like VLSI layout [17   Multilevel graph partitioning algorithms [19,12  a r e  th e cl ass  of graph partitioning algorithms reduce the size of the graph by 
coarsening vertices and edges, partitions the smaller graph \(i.e coarsen the graph\, and then uncoarsens it to construct a partition for the original graph In general, multilevel approaches follow the strategy of decrease and conquer. The decrease and conquer strategy is based on exploiting the relationship between a solution to a given instance of a problem and a solution to a smaller instance of the same problem [6  A m on g th e av aila bl e dec r eas e  an d  conquer techniques, multilevel graph partitioning algorithms follow \217Variable Size Decrease\220 technique where a size reduction pattern varies from one iteration of the algorithm to another [6 T h e r ef or e  a ll th e ben ef i ts of dec r eas e  an d con q u e r  strategy are gained by these approaches. As the problem size is reduced, the computational time for identifying a solution to 
the smaller instance of the problem is greatly reduced Although additional time is required for problem reduction as well as for projecting the solution back to the original problem it is still beneficial than the time required to explore the original problem in entirety. The major issue concerned with this approach is related to the quality of the initial solution [2   Most of the approaches pick up a random initial partition which is further projected back to the larger instance of the problem This highly random nature of the initial solution has a direct impact on determining the quality of the final solution Improving the quality of the initial partition improves the final partition quality to a greater extend. Taking this fact into 
85 978-1-4799-2572-8/14/$31.00 c 
account, this paper proposes a hybrid approach with an improvement strategy to the initial partition based on balanced big method [1 l l o w e d  b y l o c a l s e ar c h  r e fi n e m e nt  Ra t h e r  than the existing technique, the partition technique based on satisfying the problem objective of maintaining the balance factor with a certain level of diversification can be adapted The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section II provides the formal graph partitioning description. In section 2014 IEEE 
002 


minimized and O\(|E  The edge cut cost can be computed using \(1 where represents the weight of edge Initial partition in the proposed approach is implemented based on balanced big method on the coarsest graph obtained from coarsening phase. The quality of the initial partition depends on the partitioning strategy applied. As the coarsening phase concentrates more on retaining the heavier edges together, it would be better to concentrate on maintaining the balancing factor in this phase. Since the problem objective is to minimize the edge cut cost as well as to maintain balanced partition. As a new vertex is encountered, placing the vertex in one of the P ROPOSED A PPROACH  This paper proposes a multilevel hybrid algorithm for balanced graph partitioning which applies a better method for initial partitioning phase followed by local search. Perfectly balanced partitions are generally not feasible. Solutions obtained by approaches that depend on the properties for the graph while partitioning do not depend on the quality of initial partition, whereas refinement strategies followed in multilevel algorithms are local search techniques in which the quality of initial solution has a major impact on the final solution Therefore, it is a better idea to consider the balance factor while performing the initial partitioning. During initial partitioning phase, to make sure that the partitions are not only balanced but also satisfies the edge cut minimization requirement, this work tries to maintain the coarsened edges together based on balance factor and introduce a small degree of diversification through greedy approach towards uncoarsened and less coarsened vertices. Less coarsened vertices are vertices with lesser degree of coarsening. In order to identify vertices that are less coarsened, we consider the degree of the vertex as the degree of coarsening  Th e  initial partition is further subjected to local search refinement The hybrid balanced big method works as follows: Generate initial partition in such a way that, for a highly coarsened vertex, apply balanced partition by placing it in the minimum size partition and for less coarsened vertex, apply greedy partition by allocating it to the maximum size partition or any other partition other than the minimum size partition. This would improve the initial partition quality thereby overcoming the major drawback of existing algorithms. Now, this better quality solution is subjected to local search technique which applies single move, double move and relaxed move strategies. Fig. 1 depicts the general procedure of the proposed multilevel partitioning technique.  The different stages of the algorithm are discussed below into smaller components with specific properties. The vertices and edges may be weighted. By default, the vertices and edges are assumed to be of unit weight. A partition of a graph is mapping of and The weight of a subdomain is just the sum of the weights of the vertices in it. The edges that are not a part of any of the subdomain, i.e., the inter subdomain edges are called III, the proposed approach with improved initial partitioning is described. Section IV discusses the experimental results and finally concluded in section V  II disjoint subdomains say vertices and represents partition P ROBLEM D ESCRIPTION  In mathematics, the graph partition problem is defined as given an undirected graph The partitioning algorithm must preprocess the input graph and represent it in an appropriate data structure. In order to maintain the weight of both vertices and edges during the course of partitioning, the appropriate data structure to represent the graph is a variant of adjacency list structure also called as incidence list [1   T h is A d j a cen cy lis t st ru ct u r e  performs asymptotically better than other representations for the proposed partitioning algorithm   G = \(V, E G \(V,E    disjoint subsets of about the same size, such that the number of cutting edges is minimized. The union of all the vertices of each subject to e P j P j of about the same    III into a sequence of smaller graphs A coarser graph V 2014 IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC 003 003 W 14  T h is p r o cess o f co arsen i n g is co n t i n u e d  u n til t h e  coarsening threshold is reached. i.e., the size of the coarser graph becomes equal to or less than the coarsening threshold During the coarsening process if two graphs and P i A Preprocess Input Graph B e ij    represents the edge connecting vertices  such that 86 W\(e ij  Coarsening Stage are of the same size, this means that the graph cannot be coarsened further. In such cases, the coarsening process stops even before reaching the coarsening threshold  The time complexity of HEM matching scheme is The sum of all weights of edges between different partitions say P = P 1 U P 2 U \203 U P k  edges such that it is possible to partition is equal to Followed by initial preprocessing of the graph, the graph is subjected to coarsening process. The process of coarsening involves transforming the original graph partitions with minimum partition size would such that 1  002   by finding an independent subset of edges and then coarsen the vertices connected by each of the edge in the subset identified. Different matching schemes are available in the literature and an appropriate matching scheme that satisfies the problem objective can be chosen. Considering the fact that the partitioning objective is to minimize the edge cut cost, it is better to retain heavier edges together in the same partition. Therefore, Heavy Edge Matching \(HEM\eme is chosen as the appropriate method for coarsening 003 \002 C Initial Partitioning Stage V 1 V 2 V m  P i E G V k P j P i P j k P j V e ij V i  V j  P i i e ij G 0 G 1 G 2 G m G i+1 V i+1 E i+1  G i  V i E i  G i G i+1 k dge cut cost cut edges of the partition is formed from a graph   i.e., To partition a graph The sum of the node weights in each partition and into into is is 


Pick a high gain vertex Pick a high gain vertex Then Use Balanced partitioning Else Use Greedy partitioning End for Refinement LocalSearch\(Initial Partition  Uncoarsen, Refine and Project Partition While\(G i G 0 do Uncoarsen\(G i to G i-1  LocalSearch\(Current Partition End While D Uncoarsening/Projecting Stage Apply Relaxed Single Move would result in the partition of the original input graph s th e un coars en i ng proceeds th e number of vertices and edges in the graph increase whereas the weights of vertices and edges decrease. Uncoarsening and refinement is continued until the original graph For each partition say The refinement stage works as an improvement strategy to enhance the quality of initial partition obtained via the Initial Partitioning Stage. Local search technique is employed to the initial partition as well as to the partitions obtained while projecting back the initial partition to the original graph. To improve the implementation strategy of the refinement phase special data structures including bucket data structure [19  can be used. The partition quality improved by moving vertices across different partitions based on move gain. Given a partition must be greater than the size of the partition other than and Randomly choose a partition say Randomly choose a partition say Randomly choose a partition say to which it is chosen to be moved and the partition with maximum size say to which it is chosen to be moved Fig. 1. Multilevel Hybrid Graph Partitioning Technique P j    o o o must be greater than the size of the partition must be greater than the size of the partition to partition move gain is computed for all the vertices that are not part of   The steps involved in single move strategy are     The steps involved in relaxed move strategy are  i.e Compute move gain for all Move the vertex Pick a high gain vertex Move the vertex v PreprocessInputGraph Coarsening Phase While\(|V| > coarsen_threshold\ do Coarsen\(G i to G i+1  End while Apply Balanced Big Initial Partition to G m  For all v in V do If coarsendegree  87 v P j P j v V i v P i P max v v P i v P i P j P i P j P max v v P i  v P i P i P max v P i  G i-1 G i-2 203 G 0 G 0 P = P 1 U P 2 U.. P k E is obtained and the partition is projected back to it  to to Single Move vertex from bucket data structure such that, the size of the current partition of from bucket data structure such that, the size of the current partition of from bucket data structure such that, the size of the current partition of Uncoarsening is simply the reverse of coarsening phase The partition obtained for the coarser graph must be projected back to the original graph. i.e., projecting back the partitioning to the graphs It is required to find a highest gain vertex while choosing vertices for move operation. As the initial partition quality obtained in the partitioning phase is of relatively good quality, further exploitation through local search technique \(Hill Climbing would refine the obtained solution. The conventional local search applied to graph partitioning problem works by moving the vertices across partitions. To maintain the balance of the partitions, the move strategies picks up high gain vertices from bucket data structure and moves the chosen vertex from its current partition to the chosen partition only if the balance criteria is maintained The refinement strategy follows three kinds of moves namely single move, double move and relaxed move. Both single move and double move are applied alternatively to improve diversity.  In addition to these two moves, to include some level of diversification, relaxed move is also included The steps involved in single move, double move and relaxed move are depicted below The steps involved in single move strategy are boost up the partition size balance. Since the initial partition is performed on a coarser graph, the vertices of the graph would be of different degree of coarsening. As the vertex weight is updated at each step of coarsening, the coarsen degree can be determined from the vertex weight. Higher degree of coarsening of a vertex depicts that the vertex has more number of vertices combined together. Maintaining these vertices together is necessary to satisfy the minimum edge cut requirement. Adding this vertex to a larger size partition would result in imbalanced partition as the vertices are uncoarsened. It is a better to place such high degree vertex in a partition with sm pply i ng th e sa m e ru le for vertices with lower degree of coarsening would require the vertex to be placed in any partition other than the minimum size partition. To introduce some degree of greediness and diversification, we would place such a less coarsened vertex in the partition with maximum size  other than the partition with maximum size say other than the partition with maximum size say Refining Stage          200 200 200 200 200 200 200 is high P j 2014 IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC Algorithm u P i     MultilevelGraphPartition\(Graph G  such that to which it is chosen to be moved and in 


and for  a benchmark instance. Though the solution obtained by existing technique is relatively good for smaller value of iterations of refinement The comparative performance of random initial partitioning with Tabu Search Refinement and balanced big method of partitioning for the benchmark instances in Table 1 are shown in Fig. 2 and the results are discussed below The graph of Fig. 2a represents the comparative performance of the proposed approach with the random technique with tabu search for 100 add20.graph space complexity The input graph is further coarsened using HEM technique HEM takes IV time and is carried out as Coarsen_thereshold = 200 O\(|E k={2,4,8 E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS  The experiments were carried out to evaluate and analyze the efficiency of the proposed approach. The experiments were conducted on a set of well-known benchmark graphs that are widely used to assess graph partitioning collected from the University of Greenwich Graph Partitioning Archive. The experiments were conducted in Intel\256 Core\222 i3-2330M 2.20GHz 4.00 GB configuration and the algorithm was implemented in Microsoft C#.Net and compiled in Microsoft Net Framework 4.5 The original graph is processed initially by the input graph representation module and the appropriate adjacency list structure is created. This step involves processing each and every vertex and the edges connecting its adjacent vertices Therefore it requires  The experimental results were conducted with A   Instance Vertices Edges uk.graph 4824 13722 3elt.graph 4720 9462 add20.graph 2395 7462 add32.graph 4960 6837 The experiment was conducted in few of the benchmark instances shown in Table I with different values of 88 increases, the proposed method out performs the existing technique  TABLE I  O\(|V|+|E k n k Analysis of Results    b  c  d Fig. 2. Performance of Random Tabu Search\(TS\ Balanced Big Hill a\add20.graph \(b\ uk.graph \(c\32.graph \(d\3elt.graph B ENCHMARK I NSTANCES  2014 IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC number of times until the coarsened graph reached the coarsening threshold   T h e coarsen ed g r aph is f u rt h e r partition ed. To p r ov e th e quality of initial partitioning of the proposed approach, the experiments were carried out by subjecting the coarsened graph to multilevel algorithms with random initial partition and tabu search refinement as well as with the proposed balanced big initial partition with local search \(Hill climbing refinement. From the results it is inferred that the edge cut cost is minimized in the proposed approach  


are represented in Fig. 2b, 2c and 2d respectively indicate that as the size of the graph \(i.e., number of vertices and edges\well as the number of partitions and and Cedric Chevalier, Ilya Safro Available http://glaros.dtc.umn.edu/gkhome/views/metis/index.html 4 Introduction to Algorithms Lecture 11 David S. Johnson, \215The NP-Completeness Column: An ongoing Guide\216 Journal of Algorithms 11, 1990  2014 IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC increases \(i.e., the number of partitions\e proposed approach performs better. This implies that as per Table 1, when the number of edges is high the performance of the proposed algorithm improves. To evaluate this, the experimental results were also taken for varying number of iterations says, 100 to 300. The results indicate that as the number of iterations increase, the quality of partitions gradually improves. Increasing the number of iterations further result in high quality solutions. This can be inferred from Fig. 3. Further additional analysis and experiments have to be performed to exactly quantify the improvement factor The results indicate that, adapting the balanced big method in the initial stage leads to a significant improvement in the quality of solution in the subsequent phases of graph partitioning. The partition refined via local search is further projected back to the original graph via uncoarsening process The experimental results also show that there may be a significant trade-off between solution quality and partition balance. Obtaining perfectly balanced partitions is not feasible V Family of Graph and Hypergraph Partitioning Software C ONCLUSION  In this paper, a multilevel hybrid graph partitioning algorithm using balanced big method for initial partitioning followed by local search refinement was implemented and compared with the existing random initial partition with tabu search refinement. The proposed algorithm follows the basic framework of multilevel approach but replaces the random initial partitioning approach by balanced big approach and uses conventional local search technique in the refinement phase. The experimental result shows that the proposed method improves the partition quality compared to existing method for medium sized graphs The proposed approach can be further improved with better refinement strategies and extended for applications like road network graphs where graph partitioning is an essential step to reduce the problem size R EFERENCES  1 Graph Datastructures George Karypis Available http://courses.csail.mit.edu/6.006/fall10/lectures/lecture11.pdf 2 George Karypis, Vipin Kumar, \215A fast and high quality Multilevel Scheme for partitioning irregular Graphs\216, SIAM Journal of Scientific Computing, Vol. 20, No.1, pp. 359-392, 1998  Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest, and Clifford Stein, "Introduction to Algorithms", Third Edition. MIT Press and McGraw-Hill, ISBN-978-81-203-4007-7  of improvement is obtained using the proposed approach Further the results also indicate that, the quality of the partition improves as the number of iterations increase. Also on an average, as the value of JOSTLE \204 graph partitioning software Gerhard J. Woeginger, \215Exact Algorithms for NP-hard problems: A survey\216  UnaBenlic,Jin-Kao Hao, \215An effective multilevel tabu search approach for balanced graph partitioning\216, Elsevier Journal of Computers Operations Research, Vol. 38, pp. 1066-1075, 2011 Chris Walshaw and Patrick Jaillet  Fig. 3. Performance Comparison with different iteration count for uk.graph The experimental results for Available http://www.mcs.anl.gov/uploads/cels/papers/P1563.pdf 3 k k Robert Krauthgamer, Joseph \(Seffi\or, Roy Schwartzz, \215Partitioning Graphs into Balanced Components\216, Proceedings of SIAM-ACM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms\(SODA09\, Vol.102, 2009  Gerhard J.Woeginger, \215Open problems around exact algorithms\216 Discrete Applied Mathematics 156, 2008   http://www.eecs.yorku.ca/course_archive/2010-11/W/2011/Notes s17b_graph_struct.pdf 6 k=2 respectively for medium sized graph considered. On an average, with the current settings k=4 crease, the proposed method performs better than the existing random initial partition with tabu search refinement approach. Fig. 2d also indicates that as the size of the graph increases, even for the quality of partition improves for the proposed method The experimental results are shown upto C.M.Fuduccia, R.M.Mattheyses, \215A Linear Time Heuristic for Improving Network Partitions\216, Proceedings of the 19 th design automation conference, pp. 171-185, 1982 9 Anany Levitin, \215Introduction to the Design and Analysis of Algorithms\216, 2 nd edition, ISBN 978-81-317-1837-7 7 add32.graph 3elt.graph 89 Goodrich, Tamassia \(2011/3/28 AlexandrosEfentakis, DimitrisTheodorakis, Dieter Pfoster 215Crowdsourcing computing resources for shortest-path computation\216 ACM SIGSPATIAL GIS, ACM 978-1-4503-1691-0/12/11, 2012 8 Sanjeev Arora, Satish Rao, UmeshVazirani, \215Geometry, Flows, and Graph-Partitioning Algorithms\216, Communications of the ACM, Vol. 51 No. 10, pp. 96-105, October 2008  Available http://staffweb.cms.gre.ac.uk/~c.walshaw/jostle 5 uk.graph 11 8                     5 to 11   improvement for George Karypis, Vipin Kumar, \215Multilevel k-way Partitioning Scheme for Irregular Graphs\216, Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing Vol. 48, pp. 96-129, 1998  Jonathan A. Kelner, "Spectral Partitioning, Eigenvalue bounds, and circle packings for graphs of bounded genus", SIAM Journal of Computing, Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, Vol. 35 No. 4, pp. 882\205902, 2006  k=8 Comparison of coarsening schemes for multilevel graph partitioning Isabelle Staton, Gabriel Kliot, \215Streaming Graph Partitioning for Large Distributed Graphs\216, in Proceedings of KDD\22012, ACM 978-1-45031462-6/12/08, 2012  


  6  Figure 6 Trajectories of satellites in the LocalVertical-Local-Horizontal \(LVLH\ frame as simulated using different levels of modeling from Figure 5  The orange star represents the point directly nadir to the reference satellite at 0 0 altitud  in  t he L V L H  frame  a\ Free Orbit Ellipse using  the Hill Clohessy Wiltshire HCW Equations  42    4 3    12+1 satellites   b Free Orbit Ellip se using  the modified HCW Equations  with J2 and Drag effects 45    4 6    3+1 satellites    c   Free Orbit Ellipse using HPOP Orbit propagation STK on 3+1 satellites with differential inclination  true anomaly and eccentricity   d\Free Orbit Ellipse using HPOP Orbit propagation STK on 3+1 satellites with differential RAAN  true anomaly and ec centricity   Performance Evaluation Methods  Science performance in our model is computed in the Box IIIb right blue box in the innermost layer\ in Figure 2 and the detailed version is shown in Figure 7  The inputs to the Figure 7  model are the solar zenith measurement zenith and relative azimuth angle of all satellites in a cluster at any given instant of time, which comes from the systems engineering model and the biome of interest which is an external requirement    Figure 7: Summary of science performance evaluation   Figure 2  The model combines angular output from the cluster architectures in the SE model with the BRDF science evaluation model. The metrics of performance are BRDF Error and Application Error, marked in green boxes   True BRDF is the set of reflectance values of the biome of interest measured by CAR at all angles \(e.g Figure 3   A sample of these values that corresponds to the cluster  


  7  to invert a BRDF model \(e.g. RLTS chosen\ and estimate the model parameters. These parameters are then used to run the forward model and calculate reflectance at all angles. The difference between this estimated reflectance and the true CAR reflectance is called the  and is represented as a Root Mean Square value RMS BRDF can be used to calculate geophysical variables such as albedo and GPP The difference between these variables calculated from the CAR reflectance values vs from the forward model estimated values is called the  albedo error BRDF errors and App errors at any instant of time are the outputs from the science performance evaluation model and determine the goodness of the input cluster design and corresponding angular spread  By calculating the error over time for a full tradespace of cluster architectures or designs helps us judge them based on an intricately coupled science metric. Eventually, these science based errors can be traded against the cost of increasing the number/size of satellites in and complexity of the DSM 48  4 9   an d  v alu e ce n tr ic d ec is io ns  f o r  its  engineering design [2    4  R ESULTS AND INFERENCES   The major drivers or influencers on BRDF errors that we wish to investigate are The formation flight \(FF\ models and its internal variables to get a tradespace of angular spread 7    1 2   b io m e t y p e   g eo p h y s ical p ar a m eter s  o r  supplication and temporal behavior of the cluster or constellation. In this section, we present four case studies where different FF models are plugged in with different biomes and parameters  Linearized Frame and Snow Albedo  In the first case study, we plugged the Free Orbit Ellipse FOE configuration in the curvature corrected HCW frame to the science evaluation model for estimating snow BRDF and albedo An FOE inclined at 21\260 with LVLHX=0 plane was chosen based on previous studies that showed the possibility of large but consistent angular spread with such a configuration 7    1 2   A full tradespace enumeration of every possible way N satellites could orient on an FOE leads to tens of millions of architectures which is not efficient to explore because most of them are redundant and significantly underperforming Since previous studies showed the necessity of a large angular spread the satellites on the FOE are forced into architectures with equal satellites per ring, equal azimuthal spacing in each ring and constrained to a maximum of 6 rings and 8 azimuthal slots  5, 9 and 13 satellites were chosen for the study where 1 satellite was always forced to point nadir for reference reflectance measurements to benchmark the others against  The results of the full factorial study are shown in Table 1  as the best and worst configuration for 5, 9, 13 satellites as judged by the BRDF error they produce with respect to the true CAR data in Figure 3 a The first column of figures shows the LVLH position of the satellites in FOE configuration at the instant of time which recorded minimum top rows best case or maximum bottom rows worst case errors The second column shows the resultant measurement zenith and relative azimuth achieved by all satellites in each cluster by pointing their sensor to the ground spot directly below the LVLH origin which always contains the reference satellite Since global parameters are not considered in this frame of analysis the sun is assumed to always be in the orbit plane of the reference satellite or the LVLH-Z=0 plane. In reality the solar azimuth changes a lot causing the measurement azimuth to change a lot \(unless the orbit is sun synchronous  The worst errors are found when all the measurements are bunched up at near-nadir look angles i.e. negligible zenith range \(red dots in second figure column\. Errors are even worse when the measurement angles have no azimuthal spread and more so when they are asymmetrically concentrated on one side of the BRDF polar plot For example the worst case error with 5 satellites is more than an order of magnitude more than the worst case error with 9 satellites Architecturally this disparity was possible because the 6 ring maxima prevented 9 satellites from lining up on one side    Figure 8 FOE configuration with 9 satellites with an RMS error of 0.087 with respect to true BRDF i.e almost maximum error This measurement configuration is very similar to that of MISR on the TERRA spacecraft with 9 sensors. However, it is very constrained in zenith angle range, which MISR is not 


 978-1-4799-1622-1/14/$31.00 \2512014 IEEE 1  Table 1: Results of the full factorial analysis of N satellites in an FOE configuration at 21\260 with X=0 plane, equally distributed in a flexible number of rings over equally spaced azimuth per ring. One satellite is always forced to point nadir as the reference satellite to make baseline reflectance measurements In the BRDF polar plots radius  view zenith angle, polar azimuth = relative azimuth with respect to the Sun     Cluster Configuration in the LVLH frame with trajectories from the HCW equations  Instantaneous Measurement Angles for the geometry  shown  Estimated BRDF using parameters inverted on measurement samples shown  N = 5 satellites  Minimum Error Case  RMS  error 0.0582  Albedo error 0.0059     Maximum Error Case  RMS  error 0.4884  Albedo error 0.4      N = 9 satellites  Minimum Error Case  RMS  error 0.0571  Albedo error 0.0034     Maximum Error Case  RMS  error 0.0875  Albedo error 0.03     N = 13 satellites  Minimum Error Case  RMS  error 0.0570  Albedo error 0.0024     


  9  Maximum Error  Case  RMS  error 0.087  Albedo error 0.0306           Errors almost the same as the maximum \(<1% difference in the N  9 and 13 satellites case showed measurement angles line up in a straight line as seen in Figure 8  This  measurement spread except more constrained in the  d in the same way as Figure 7  is halfway between this maximum error and minimum error which translates to half an order of magnitude in albedo errors. This implies th at having a large zenith range mitigates some error caused by the lack of azimuthal spread but cannot reduce it beyond a certain value The least errors blue dots in second figure column for snow albedo and BRDF are always achieved by both zenith range so that the sun glint at low sun conditions is captured and azimuthal spread so that the symmetry in the BRDF plot is captured Large differences in look angles for identical satellites causes a huge elongation of swath, however this is a problem at MISR \(with look angles varying from 0 to 70 o also has to deal with  The best and worst BRDF RMS and al bedo errors from the full factorial results in Table 1  are summarized as a function of the number of satellites in Figure 9   are summarized as a function of the number of satellites Worst case errors drop significantly from 5 to 9 satellites as explained by the fact that all 4 satellites bunched up in the same direction from the Sun which 9 and 13 satellites could not do. The worst case error drop between 9 to 13 satellites and the overall best case error drop is 0.3 indicating nearly no gain in increasing satellite numbers Since BRDF error is the sum of sampling goodness error model error and model inversion error and the RLTS  representation of earth reflectance only 3 parameters\, it may not be sufficient to capture the improving errors due to increasing spread because of its own coarseness  Since the inversion error is 0.5 or negligible assuming a perfect model meant that almost entire error is a metric of sampling goodness. Availability of new spreads creates a scientific incentive to create better models such as those in computer graphics 32   33  o r  c o m p r es s ed  i m a g in g  w h ic h  u s es a s p h er ical  harmonics representation of reflectance [50      Figure 9  BRDF RMS error left axis and albedo error \(right axis\ with respect to CAR data for the best green, top\ and worst \(red, bottom\ configurations as a function of number of satellites in the informed full factorial simulation in Table 1    Comparing the worst configurations for 9 13 satellites and best configurations for 5, 9, 13 satellites also reveals 40 difference in BRDF errors but very little absolute improvement On the other hand the worst case improvement from 5 satellites is 400%.  This shows that if satellites are uniformly spread out in rings/zenith and azimuth as the full factorial study was forced to do except in the 5 satellite case we have leeway where even the worst is only 0.001 worse than the best in albedo. This inference is important because the satellites 


  10   will spin around in the ellipse and the best configuration will distort periodically [7    12 but can never get worse than the worst due to orbital dynamics alone no perturbations considered Modified Linearized Frame and Snow Albedo  In the second case study, we plugged the modified HCW equation solutions, with J2 and atmospheric drag included and curvature corrected to the science evaluation model for estimating snow BRDF and albedo [51   T o  d r a w  f r o m  the first case study the number of satellites and HCW initial parameters were set in order to re-create the best configuration with 13 satellites  Table 1  5 th  row in this high fidelity frame The trajectories were propagated for 15 orbits 1 day and shown in Figure 10 top Six satellites each spin around the inner \(red\ and outer \(blue ring at equal spacing Drag and J2 causes the rings to tumble about the cross axis as well as drift along track The view zenith angle subtended at the ground target orange star\ by the first satellite on each ring is plotted in Figure 10 bottom A small increase the angle subtended t rending at 2 o  is seen over 15 orbits The drift is characteristic of that seen in Figure 6 c\ indicating a close analogy with the differential inclination driven FOE Arctic snow sampling needs maximum angular spread and coverage at the poles hence differential inclination not RAAN\ will be needed  This calculation and plot assumes that the cluster always flies over snow for an entire day which is not realistic However the exercise is useful to evaluate the effect of error over time and inform decisions to phase the satellites so that the configuration when it flies over snow corresponds to minimum error  When the angular spread achieved by the above cluster is pl ugged into the science evaluation model for snow BRDF RMS errors can be calculated for each instant of ti me and plotted over 115 orbits Figure 11 shows a small linear trend downward because of the slight increase in zenith angles subtended at the ground target which increases the closeness to sampling the sun glint Too much drift would cause the formation to go over the horizon with respect to the reference satellite which would kill the simultaneous sampling capability of the cluster Cluster maintenance strategies such as changing the reference satellite and/or commanding the other satellites to point at the ground track of the reference satellite instead of directly below it assuming a few minutes time separation in making measurements is acceptable and/or active propulsion can be adopted to recover angular sampling capabilities in the event of too much drift    Figure 10  To T he  bes t  1 3  s a t ellit e clus t er  configuration in Table 1  propagated over 1 day including J2 and atmospheric drag effects; trajectories of the inner red and outer blue ring shown in LVLH frame Orange star represents the ground target at \(0,0,-altitude\ in LVLH frame. [Bottom  View  zenith angle subtended at ground target for one satellite in the inner \(red\and outer \(ring\. The graphs for the other 10 satellites are phase shifted versions      Figure 11 also shows a distinct oscillatory pattern of the BRDF RMS errors with 6 oscillations per orbit short term\ and 1 oscillation per orbit \(long term\. The insets in Figure 11 show the measurement angles corresponding to select crests and troughs The present of 6 satellites per ring ensures a wide azimuthal coverage and taps into the different quarters of the BRDF polar plot in spite of the orbital dynamics causing the satellites to rotate about the center The patterns seem to indicate that crests correspond to maximum sampling along principal plane 0 180 line/plane contains the sun while the troughs correspond to the times when the satellites have all 


  11   rotated out of the principal plane. If the cluster is expected to encounter snow in X% of its orbit, we should phase the satellites such that the first or last X% of the orbit \(least error seen in Figure 11 corresponds to the flight over snow   Figure 11  insets show the advantage that clusters with equally spaced satellites in azimuth have on sampling specific angles The measurement spread remains almost the same over orbits because as one satellite rotates out of a given view zenith and relative azimuth angle another one moves in to fill its space Thus if the cluster is designed such that some combination of angles is captured, equal azimuths will ensure that they are always captured  with more efficiency as number of satellites increases. This is all the more useful when changing solar azimuth angles are taken into account because the satellites rotate even faster because of it. Drift does cause some degradation in the view zenith angle and we discussed mitigation earlier in this section Sun and drift caused dynamics are best assessed in the global STK frame, which is the highest level of frameworks we use     Figure 11  BRDF RMS error with respect to the CAR data for the cluster shown in Figure 10  when propagated for 1 orbit top and 15 orbits bottom Insets show the measurement angles achieved at specific points in time marked   Snow BRDF vs. Vegetation BRDF  In the third case study, we plugged the Free Orbit Ellipse FOE configuration in the curvature corrected HCW frame to the science evaluation model for estimating vegetation BRDF in Southern Africa 51   T h e s tu d y  i s  essentially the same as the first case study except for a very different biome, with the intent of understanding the difference between the results caused by changing biomes A full factorial analysis is done with the same variables and constraints as the first case study Results are presented in Figure 12  for best blue left and worst red right error configurations using 4 5 9 and 13 satellites The respective errors are noted on the first column as e  minimum RMS error maximum RMS error   Figure 13 shows the dependence of these errors on the number of satellites  As earlier the worst errors occur when all the satellites are bunched toward near nadir i.e N  4 or 5 satellites second red column in Figure 12  These configurations fail to capture the azimuthal variation of BRDF and, more importantly, the hotspot as seen in Figure 3 b which is the peak reflection on the principal plane that occurs at view zenith angle equal to solar zenith angle with the sun behind the sensors Worst case errors show a big drop between 5 to 9 satellites since the 9 satellites are forced to symmetrically arrange themselves on either side of nadir While the worst case still occurs due to lack of azimuthal coverage errors are improved because of the ability to  configuration except at much restricted zenith range as before The worst case in 13 satellites captures the full zenith variation of BRDF but not the hotspot at all, hence only a slight improvement in errors red curve in Figure 13 The best case errors are seen \(blue dots in Figure 12  when at least a part of the hotspot is captured measurements are made in the upper hemisphere to capture the anti-hotspot and the zenith variation of BRDF is sampled  The best case error for one time instant does not seem to depend on the number of satellites at all green curve in Figure 13  For example, the best configuration in the 4 and 5 satellite case exploit the symmetry of the left and right hemisphere and achieve the same errors as the 9, 13 satellites with full zenith and azimuthal spread. However the propagated over the whole orbit the latter will do much better because the azimuthal sampling will compensate for the cluster rotating about the nadir. The 4 satellite case will be demonstrated in the STK frame to 


  12   show its drawback over time. The saturation could also be attributed to model errors and spherical harmonics models will be tested instead of RLTS to assess the difference   Least error Config   Most error Config   N = 4 satellites    0.0135, 0.0831    N = 5 satellites    0.0135, 0.0763    N = 9 satellites     0.0135, 0.0266    N 13  satellites   0.0135, 0.0192    Figure 12 Measurement angles obtained with clusters with increasing number of satellites rows that gave the minimum blue column 1 and maximum red column 2 RMS error with respect to true BRDF of savannah vegetation measured by CAR where E  min Error max Erro   I n  t he po la r plo t s   ra diu s    view zenith angle polar azimuth  relative azimuth with respect to the Sun  The vegetation results are not extremely different from the snow results except a critical one Snow needs more azimuthal sampling than vegetation. Vegetation produces the same and least error with a straight line sampling across the BRDF polar plot N=4 satellites blue dots in Figure 12  snow produces near maximum and never minimum errors in such a configuration N=9 satellites red dots in Figure 8 Vegetation errors shoot up when the sampling is not available for t op and bottom hemispheres This difference explains why the MISR sensor which its 9 forward aft sensors does much better for vegetation than for snow These results also agree very closely with an simulated annealing and genetic algorithm optimization to find the best and worst sampling points for vegetation and snow for 5, 9, 13 satellites   Figure 13  BRDF RMS error with respect to CAR data for the best green and worst red configurations as a function of number of satellites in the informed full factorial simulation in Figure 12   Global STK Framework and Vegetation   In the fourth and final case study, we plugged the differential Keplerian element propagation in the global orbits frame using AGI STK to the science evaluation model for estimating vegetation BRDF as the cluster flies over Southern Africa 51   T h e s t u d y  r eq u ir e m e n t s  w er e  considered in concurrence with current launch and funding opportunities: 4 satellites in a cluster with at least 1 nadir pointing satellite that are launched into a typical orbit using commonly available secondary launches Individual spacecrafts are assumed to be 6U cubesats with no propulsion module on board. Requirements govern the flexibility in varying the differential Keplerian elements for the cluster satellites with respect to the reference satellite The reference orbit was chosen at a 650 km altitude at 51.6 o  inclination to correspond to typical launch availabilities at near ISS orientations. Semi major axis \(SMA\ has to be the same for all satellites to prevent the formation from breaking. Lack of onboard propulsion restricts the variation of inclination perigee and eccentricity because the cluster orbits cannot be initialized without propulsion Differential inclination will also cause a tumbling effect which coupled with drift will eventually break the formation in the absence of active maintenance as seen in Figure 6 c Therefore the only free variables available are differential true anomaly \(TA 


  13   and differential RAAN   Differential variation of TA and RAAN cause a cross-track scan in HCW frame pattern which is more limited in azimuthal coverage than the FOE configuration  a  b  Figure 14 AGI-STK Astrogator propagated image of the satellite cluster as Config #6 \(a\ and Config #3 \(b  as they fly over Southern Africa   The very reduced full factorial analysis comprised of 6 cluster configurations where 4 of the 6 orbital elements were the same across all satellites: SMA = 6378+650 km i  51.6 o    0 e 0 and the RAAN and TA were perturbed by small amounts as listed in Table 2  Two of the configurations have been shown in an Astrogator propagated STK image as they fly over Southern Africa  Table 2  RAAN and TA in the form of osculating Keplerian elements for 4 satellites in the cluster when arranged in different 6 configurations as part of a reduced full factorial case study The other Keplerian elements are the same for all satellites SMA  6378+650 km, i = 51.6 o  0, e= 0  RAAN::TA of the foll. satellites in degrees   Sat #1  Sat #2  Sat #3  Sat #4  Config #1  0::0  0 5  5::0  5 5  Config #2  0::0  0 5  5::0  5 5  Config #3  0::0  0 5  5 5  5 5  Config #4  0::0  0 5  5 3  5 5  Config #5  0::0  0 5  5 3  3 3  Config #6  0::0  0 3  3::0  3 3    All clusters using their initial osculating elements and the MISR sensor using TLEs from an online database were simulated on STK starting October 13, 2013. A 20minute time window when the cluster flies over southern Africa was identified on the same when the solar zenith angle is ~ 30 o to match with the true CAR data available for Savannah vegetation  Figure 3 b  crossing time window is less than an hour ahead of the  instant over 20 minutes the RMS error between the BRDF estimated by the cluster using Figure 7  methodology and true BRDF is calculated and plotted in Figure 15  as different colors All of vegetated Africa is assumed to possess the BRDF signature shown in Figure 3 b  True solar azimuth angle variation is considered and used to calculate relative azimuth angles The same is repeated for MISR and plotted as black asterisks. Config 6 shows the highest RMS error and Config #3 the least   Figure 15  BRDF error over time as the 4 satellite cluster different colors represent different architectures or configurations flies over Southern Africa, assuming true BRDF to be as shown in Figure 3 b all through The black stars represent simulated BRDF errors by MISR \(from TLE data\, half an hour before in time. Measurement angles at the boxed times are shown in Figure 16   Figure 16  shows the measurement angles sampled by Config 6 Config 3 and MISR for 3 instants of time boxed in Figure 15  corresponding to medium low and high errors The intent is to identify the cluster orientations that caused the errors to change over time Since Config 6 has only two different RAANs  Figure 14 a it is not able to cover both top and bottom hemispheres of the BRDF polar plot simultaneously  which was established as a chief error driver for vegetation in the previous section 2-14 minutes after entering Africa Config 6 shows relatively low errors because it samples the hotspot region however later the errors rise significantly because the samples rote to the anti hotspot hemisphere as seen in the first row of Figure 16 On the other hand, since Config #3 has three different RAANs  Figure 14 b it does a better job in at least partially covering both top and bottom hemispheres of the BRDF polar plot simultaneously as seen in the second row of Figure 16 It exhibits lowest errors between 212 minutes after entering Africa because it samples the hot spot and anti hotspot hemispheres very close to their 


  14   exact positions on the BRDF polar plot. Later in time, the error rises slightly \(not as much as Config #6\ because the samples move out from near the hot spot but are still azimuthally spread   T0+2 minutes  T0+10 minutes  T0+20 minutes  Config #6     Config #3     MISR     Figure 16  Sampling achieved of the BRDF polar plot for the best Config  3  and worst Config 6 configuration and MISR, as averaged over 22 minutes T0 represents the time when the spacecraft \(TERRA or cluster each Southern Africa subsequent times correspond to those boxed in Figure 15  and configurations \(colors\correspond to Figure 15   The rise of error with time for all configurations can be further avoided by placing additional satellites with positive true anomaly with respect to the reference satellite so that both hemispheres are covered at any given time. This option has not been studied or shown because it causes more differential drag and in the absence of propulsion increases the risk of inter-satellite collisions  is clearly deduced by comparing its configuration change second row of Figure 16  and RMS error change \(black asterisks in Figure 15  over time with the 4 satellite clusters in best or worst configuration Since it samples the entire BRDF plot across in a straight line it always covers both the hot spot and anti hotspot hemispheres and at a variety of view zenith angles to capture the hotspot irrespective of solar zenith angle. The only time the error rises slightly is when the samples are perpendicular to the principal plane third row third column in Figure 16  Nonetheless cluster configurations have shown to produce errors equivalent to MISR therefore establishing their value in BRDF estimations 5  C ONCLUSIONS    We identify an important gap in the sampling abilities of earth observation missions angular sampling quantified by the BRDF metric and propose nanosatellite clusters in formation flight FF to make measurements to fill this gap    In this paper we demonstrated the science performance impact of such an approach using a comprehensive systems engineering model tightly coupled with a science evaluation model and tested it using stateof the-art  heritage golden standard Both snow and vegetation environments were studied to understand the impact of biome selection of cluster designs. The BRDF model used to fit over the data was selected to be RLTS based on its heritage with snow and vegetation Formation flight solutions in the linearized frames with and without perturbation forces and the global orbits frame using  compared with existing satellite solutions using their TLEs  The coupled model was applied to different models and architectures of FF  solutions which simulated angular sampling, and used to calculate errors with respect to the golden standard Specifically four case studies were studied coupling different FF solutions with different biomes and applications e g, albedo\. Insights on cluster design for BRDF learned from the case studies are presented and angular performance comparable to or better than current BRDF instruments demonstrated Clusters can serve as a powerful complement to current flagship missions by providing 3D angular coverage of the Earth at acceptable signal to noise ratios such that their angular data products can be combined with the high quality images from the larger missions. As small satellite technologies for imaging and platform stability advance further, they are likely to become critical tools at reduced costs for a new paradigm in Earth Observation capability 6  F UTURE WORK    There is much work to be done to evaluate the performance variation of FF clusters over time due to perturbation and other such effects details of Box I in Figure 2  These are likely to cause performance degradation and will require precise maintenance maneuvers over time using an onboard propulsion 


  15   module Trade studies of performance with respect to required delta chief orbit and the cost of ground operations support form important considerations in the design of the cluster architectures, and will be studied. Global designs will also need to consider the biome spread of the Earth so that the clusters are in optimal configuration when they fly over the appropriate biomes Finally this work can be extended to calculate many geophysical parameters beyond snow albedo such as vegetation GPP and radiative forcing of clouds to demonstrate the impact of improved BRDF using clusters on critical science application s  7  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS   The authors are grateful to the following people for very useful discussions on the topics presented in this paper Warren Wiscombe  Jacqueline LeMoigne Alexis Lyapustin and Ralph Kahn from NASA GSFC Marco Sabatini from Universit\340 degli Studi di Trento in Italy David Miller from MIT and Thomas Hilker from Oregon State University   R EFERENCES   1   autonomous and distributed scatter manoeuvres for  Acta Astronaut vol. 82, no. 1, pp 95 109, Jan. 2013 2    System F6 Program Value-Centric Design  Proceedings of the AIAA Space Conference Anaheim, California, 2010 3  S Nag    crowdsourcing spaceflight software and STEM  Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2012 4  S Nag   J   G  Katz   a n d  A   Saen z Oter o    STEM ed  Acta Astronaut  vol 83 no 0 pp 145 174 Feb 2013  5   spacecraft reorientation for earth orbiting clusters  Acta Astronaut vol. 53 no. 11, pp. 863 877, Dec. 2003 6   satellite systems for Multi-angular Multi-spectral  Proceedings of the 64th International Astronautical Congress  Beijing China, 2013 7   of Nano-satellite Cluster Formations for Bi-Directional Reflectance Distribution Function  AIAAUSU Conf. Small Satell  Aug. 2013 8  D  J   Din er   J   C   B ec k er t T   H  R eill y   C   J   Bruegge, J. E. Conel, R. A. Kahn, J. V. Martonchik T P Ackerman R Davies S A W Gerstl and  angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer MISR instrument description and experiment  Geosci Remote Sens IEEE Trans On  vol. 36, no. 4, pp. 1072 1087, 1998 9  X  Xio n g   R   W o lf e  W   B ar n es B   Gu e n th er   E    and Aqua MODIS Design Radiometry and  Land Remote Sens. Glob. Environ. Change pp. 133 164, 2011 10  J   E s p er   S Nee ck   W   W is co m b e  M  Rysc  BRDF: A   11  L   D y r u d   J   Fen tzk e  G  B u s t B   E r lan d s o n   S Whitely B Bauer S Arnold D Selva K Cahoy  time geoscience facili  Aerospace Conference, 2013 IEEE 2013, pp. 1 13 12   of Distributed Nanosatellite Formations for BRDF  Proceedings of the International Workshop of Satellite Constellations and Formation Flying Lisbon, Portugal, 2013 13  S Nag   K  C ah o y   O  d e W ec k   C   Gate b e  B   Pasquale, G. Georgiev, T. Hewagama, and S. Aslam  onboard Nanosatellite Clusters for Multi-Angular  Proceedings of the AIAA Space Conference San Diego, 2013 14  O  L   De W ec k   U  Scial o m   a n d  A   Sid d iq i   Acta Astronaut vol. 62 no. 2, pp. 112 130, 2008 15  S Nag   J   A   Ho f f m an   a n d  O  L   d e W ec k    Spaceflight Software using SPHERES Zero  Int J Space Technol Manag Innov IJSTMI vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 1 23, 2012 16  S Nag   I   Hef f a n   A   Saen z Oter o   an d  M  L y d o n    Lessons on crowdsourcing and collaborative  Aerospace Conference, 2012 IEEE  2012, pp. 1 17  17  F E   Nico d em u s   Geometrical considerations and nomenclature for reflectance  vol 160 US Department of Commerce National Bureau of Standards Washington, D. C, 1977 18  A   L y ap u s ti n   C   K  Gate b e  R   Kah n   R   B r an d t J   Redemann P Russell M D King C A Pedersen  bidirectional reflectance from ARCTAS Spring-2008 


  16    Atmos Chem Phys  vol 10 no 9 pp 4359 4375, 2010 19  S L ian g   Advances in land remote sensing System modelling, inversion and application Springer, 2008 20  J   L   P r iv ette  T   F E ck   an d  D  W   Dee r in g   through inversion of simple BRDF models with AVHRR/MODIS J Geophys Res  vol 102, no. D24, pp. 29529 29, 1997 21   surface atmosphere anisotropy for several surfaces  J Geophys Res vol. 108, no. D13, 2003 22  C   K  Gate b e  E   W ilco x   R   P o u d y al  a n d  J   W an g     Geophys Res Lett  vol. 38, no. 17, Sep. 2011 23    Bull Am. Meteorol. Soc vol. 76, no. 11, 1995 24  T   Hilk er   N  C   C o o p s   F G  Hall  C   J   Nich o l A   Lyapustin T A Black M A Wulder R Leuning A Barr D Y Hollinger B Munger and C J   J Geophys Res Biogeosciences  vol 116 no G3 p n/a n/a 2011  25  M  KI NG  M  ST R A NGE   P   L eo n e  an d  L    airborne measurements of scattered radiation within  J. Atmospheric Ocean. Technol vol. 3, pp 513 522, 1986 26  G  T   Geo r g iev   C   K  Gate b e  J   J   B u tler   an d  M  D   salt Geosci. Remote Sens. IEEE Trans On vol. 47, no. 8, pp. 2546 2556, 2009 27  M  O  R o m an   C   K  Gate b e  Y  Sh u ai  Z   W an g   F  In Situ and Airborne Multiangle Data to Assess MODIS and Landsat  28  M  J   B a r n s le y   A   H  S tr ah ler   K  P   Mo r r is   an d  J   P   reflectance distribution function BRDF 1  Remote Sens. Rev vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 271 311, 1994 29  T   Hilk er   F G  Hall  C   J   T u ck er   N  C   C o o p s   T   A Black C J Nichol P J Sellers A Barr D Y  assimilation of photosynthetic light-use efficiency using multiangular satellite data II Model implementation and  Remote Sens Environ  vol 121 pp 287 300, 2012 30  T   Hilk er   N  C   C o o p s   F  G  Hall  T   A   B lack   B   Chen, P. Krishnan, M. A. Wulder, P. J. Sellers, E. M  approach for upscaling gross ecosystem production  J Geophys Res Biogeosciences 2005 2012  vol 113 no. G3, 2008 31  J    with Remote Sensing Applications  Measurement  Rochester N. Y 2004 32    ACM SIGGRAPH 2004 Sketches 2004, p. 90 33    Proceedings of the Sixteenth Eurographics conference on Rendering Techniques 2005, pp. 117 126 34   driven  Rendering Techniques 2006, pp. 399 407  35   of BRDF models for the normalization of satellite optical data to a standard sun-target-sensor  Geosci Remote Sens IEEE Trans On  vol. 41, no. 8, pp. 1889 1898, 2003 36  F Ma ig n a n   F M  B r eo n   an d  R   L ac az e   Evaluation of analytical models using a large set of spaceborne measurements with emphasis on the Hot  Remote Sens Environ  vol 90 no 2 pp 210 220, 2004 37  C   Sch aa f   J   Ma r t o n ch i k   B   P in t y   Y  Go v ae r ts   F Gao A Lattanzio J Liu A Strahler and M   Advances in Land Remote Sensing  S Liang Ed Springer Netherlands 2008 pp. 219 243  38   derivation of kernels for kernel-driven models of  J Geophys Res Atmospheres  vol 100 no D10 pp 21077 21089 1995  39  H  R a h m a n   M  M  Ver s t r ae te  an d  B   P in t y    atmosphere reflectance CSAR model 1 Model description and inversion on  J Geophys Res  vol 98 no D11 pp. 20779 20, 1993 40  J   V  Ma r t o n ch ik   D  J   D in er   B   P in t y   M  M  Verstraete, R. B. Myneni, Y. Knyazikhin, and H. R  radiative and biophysical properties using  Geosci Remote Sens IEEE Trans. On vol. 36, no. 4, pp. 1266 1281, 1998 41    J Mar Res vol 13, no. 2 pp. 198 227, 1954 42    J Aerosp Sci  vol. 27, pp. 653 658, 1960 43   Am. J Math vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 5 26, 1878 44  J   R   W er tz  Orbit  Constellation Design  Management second printing ed El Segundo  California: Microcosm Press, 2009 45   Fidelity  J 


  17   Guid Control Dyn  vol 25 no 6 pp 1073 1080 2002  46   formation-flying dynamics in a perturbed orbital  Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE  2008, pp. 1 13  47   Orbits With Perturbations of Keplerian Elements   48  S Nag   J   L eM o ig n e  an d  O  L   D  Risk Analysis of Small Satellite Constellations for  IEEE Xplore Aerospace Conference 2014 Big Sky, Montana, USA, 2014 49  S Nag   E   Go m ez   S Fel ler   J   Gib b s   an d  J     for the Google Lunar X Aerospace Conference, 2011 IEEE 2011, pp. 1 20 50    Pattern Anal Mach Intell IEEE Trans. On vol. 25, no. 2, pp. 218 233, 2003 51   Trajectories for Multi-Angular Earth Observation  IEEE Aerosp. Conf. Proc vol. accepted, Mar. 2014        B IOGRAPHIES     Sreeja Nag is a PhD candidate in Space   Systems Engineering at the   Massachusetts Institute of Technology   and a part-time research fellow at   NASA Goddard Space Flight Center   She has a dual SM Candidate in Aeronautics  Astronautics Engineering along with Technology  Policy at MIT She has summer research experience with NASA JPL in 2008  the European Space Agency ESTEC in 2010 and led the SPHERES Zero Robotics Program in 2011  Email sreeja_n@mit.edu     Charles Gatebe is a scientist with the   Universities Space Research   Association and the Principal   Investigator of the Cloud Absorption   Radiometer at NASA Goddard Space   Flight Center. Email    Charles.K.Gatebe@nasa.gov     Olivier de Weck is a Professor of   Aeronautics and Astronautics and   Engineering Systems at the   Massachusetts Institute of Technology    He is also the Executive Director of   MIT Production in the Innovation   Economy \(PIE\ Study and the Co   Director Center for Complex Engineering Systems at KACST and MIT  Email deweck@mit.edu  


Emerging TopicsCo-Chairs: Theresa Pardo, Tino Schuppan, and Samuel Fosso Wamba Introduction to Emerging Topics Minitrack 1895 Theresa A. Pardo, Tino Schuppan, and Samuel Fosso Wamba A Framework for Benchmarking Open Government Data Efforts 1896 Djoko Sigit Sayogo, Theresa A. Pardo, and Meghan Cook Finding Needle in the Case-Stack: Effective Remote Monitoring of Courts 1906 Amn Rahman, Hassan Nawaz, Omer Naeem, Fareed Zaffar, Farooq Naseer, and Adeel Zaffar The Orientation-Maturity Framework for Understanding the E-Government Key Issues in China 1916 Zhang Nan, Yin Cong, Meng Qinguo, and Guo Xunhua E-Government EducationCo-Chairs: Elsa Estevez, Wojciech Cellary, and Jim Davies Introduction to E-Government Education Minitrack 1926 Elsa Estevez, Wojciech Cellary, and Jim Davies E-Government at Work Level: Skilling or De-skilling 1927 Tino Schuppan The Project TEDS@wildau: TEDS Framework Integration into the Moodle Platform for User-Specific Quality Assurance of Learning Scenarios 1935 Margit Scholl, Peter Ehrlich, Andreas Wiesner-Steiner, and Denis Edich ICT-Enabled Crisis, Disaster, and Catastrophe ManagementCo-Chairs: Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Jose J Gonzalez, and Tina Comes Introduction to ICT-Enabled Crisis, Disaster and Catastrophe Management Minitrack 1946 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Jose J. Gonzalez, and Tina Comes Sandy Tweets: Citizens Co-Production of Time-Critical Information during an Unfolding Catastrophe 1947 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Hans Jochen Scholl, and Uuf Brajawidagda Feelings and Perspective Matter: Sharing of Crisis Information in Social Media 1958 Rongjuan Chen and Yasuaki Sakamoto Social Media and Emergency Management: Exploring State and Local Tweets 1968 Lemuria Carter, Jason Bennett Thatcher, and Ryan Wright Table-Top Exercises for Emergency Management: Tame Solutions for Wicked Problems 1978 Svante Edzn Infrastructure SecurityCo-Chairs: Wm. Arthur Conklin, Ray Vaughn, and Gregory White Introduction to Infrastructure Security Minitrack 1986 Wm. Arthur Conklin, Gregory B. White, and Rayford B. Vaughn Jr Designing a Formal Model Facilitating Collaborative Information Sharing for Community Cyber Security 1987 Wanying Zhao and Gregory White Municipal E-Government Security: Insights from a Study of Orange County, California 1997 Timothy J. Perez 
xxii 


Re-engineering Cybersecurity Education in the US: An Analysis of the Critical Factors 2006 Wm. Arthur Conklin, Raymond E. Cline, and Tiffany Roosa Security Analysis of Selected AMI Failure Scenarios Using Agent Based Game Theoretic Simulation 2015 Robert K. Abercrombie, Bob G. Schlicher, and Frederick T. Sheldon Unintentional Insider Threat: Contributing Factors, Observables, and Mitigation Strategies 2025 Frank L. Greitzer, Jeremy Strozer, Sholom Cohen, John Bergey, Jennifer Cowley Andrew Moore, and David Mundie Open and Participatory GovernmentCo-Chairs: Scott Robertson, John C. Bertot, and Mitch Cochran Introduction to Open and Participatory Government Minitrack 2035 Scott P. Robertson, John C. Bertot, and Mitchell Cochran A Proposed Standard Procedure to Define Minimum Scanning Attribute Levels for Hard Copy Documents 2036 Mitchell Cochran Active Citizen E-Participation in Local Governance: Do Individual Social Capital and E-Participation Management Matter 2044 Jooho Lee and Soonhee Kim Participatory Budgeting: A Framework to Analyze the Value-Add of Citizen Participation 2054 Catherine G. Mkude, Cristina Prez-Esps, and Maria A. Wimmer Public Participation GIS: The Case of Redistricting 2063 Micah Altman and Michael P. McDonald The Challenges of Challenge.Gov: Adopting Private Sector Business Innovations in the Federal Government 2073 Ines Mergel, Stuart I. Bretschneider, Claudia Louis, and Jason Smith The Impact of the Transparency Policy on University Students Trust and Intention of Continued Use 2083 Ramn Rufn Moreno and Cayetano Medina Molina Open Data and Cloud ServicesCo-Chairs: Marijn Janssen, Yannis Charalabidis, and Helmut Krcmar Introduction to Open Data and Cloud Services Minitrack 2093 Marijn Janssen, Yannis Charalabidis, and Helmut Krcmar Applying Design Patterns in URI StrategiesNaming in Linked Geospatial Data Infrastructure 2094 Sonya Abbas and Adegboyega Ojo Dynamic Capabilities for Information Sharing: XBRL Enabling Business-to-Government Information Exchange 2104 Marijn Janssen and Yao-Hua Tan Evaluating Second Generation Open Government Data Infrastructures Using Value Models 2114 Yannis Charalabidis, Euripides Loukis, and Charalampos Alexopoulos From the Ground to the CloudA Structured Literature Analysis of the Cloud Service Landscape around the Public and Private Sector 2127 Steffi Haag, Andreas Eckhardt, and Julia Krnung 
xxiii 


Having the Mind in the Cloud: Organizational Mindfulness and the Successful Use of Desktop as a Service 2137 Sabine Dernbecher Policies and Governance for the Network SocietyCo-Chairs: Peter Parycek, Antonio Cordella, and Frank Bannister Introduction to Policies and Governance for the Network Society Minitrack 2147 Peter Parycek, Frank Bannister, and Antonio Cordella Legitimate E-GovernmentPublic E-Services as a Facilitator of Political Legitimacy 2148 Elin Wihlborg The Public Procurement of ISA Process View 2158 Carl Erik Moe and Mike Newman The Role of ICTs in Adaptive and Persistent Authoritarianism: A Study of China at the Administrative Division Level 2168 Qinfeng Zhu and Marko M. Skoric Services and InformationCo-Chairs: L. Christian Schaupp, Lemuria Carter, and Rodrigo Sandoval Almazan Introduction to Services and Information Minitrack 2178 Lemuria Carter, Ludwig C. Schaupp, and Rodrigo Sandoval Almazn E-Government Web Portal Adoption: A Service Level and Service Quality Perspective 2179 Xiao Jiang and Shaobo Ji Explanation of Public Private Partnership \(PPP Perspective 2189 Ramesh Narasimhan and Madhuchhanda Das Aundhe Motivations, Deployment, and Assessment of Taiwans E-Invoicing System: An Overview 2200 Yuh-Jzer Joung, Yen-Chung Tseng, Shih-Chao Cha, Nai-Wei Lo, Gary Chung, and Chun-Kun Liu The Role of Familiarity or Experience in Generating Trust and in Its Impact on Continued Use 2210 Cayetano Medina Molina and Ramn Rufn Moreno Social Media and Social Networking and GovernmentCo-Chairs: Suha AlAwadhi, Jay Kesan, and Marko M. Skoric Introduction to Social Media and Social Networking and Government Minitrack 2220 Suha Alawadhi, Jay P. Kesan, and Marko M. Skoric Application of Web 2.0 Technologies in E-Government: A United Kingdom Case Study 2221 Uthayasankar Sivarajah, Zahir Irani, and Stephen Jones Crowdsourcing Hazardous Weather Reports from Citizens via Twittersphere under the Short Warning Lead Times of EF5 Intensity Tornado Conditions 2231 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield and Uuf Brajawidagda My Name Is Khan: The Use of Twitter in the Campaign for 2013 Pakistan General Election 2242 Saifuddin Ahmed and Marko M. Skoric 
xxiv 


Transformational GovernmentCo-Chairs: J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Introduction to the Transformational Government Minitrack 2252 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam B. Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Enacting Collaborative Electronic Government: Empirical Evidence and Lessons for Developing Countries 2253 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Csar Renteria, and Luis F. Luna-Reyes The Role of Social Actors in the Sustainability of E-Government Implementation and Use Experience from Indonesian Regencies 2263 Nurdin Nurdin, Rosemary Stockdale, and Helana Scheepers Unveiling Barriers and Enablers of Risk Management in Interoperability Efforts 2273 Pernille Monstad Rberg, Leif Skiftenes Flak, and Per Myrseth Electric Energy Systems TrackCo-Chairs: Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Introduction to Electric Energy Systems Track 2283 Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Economics, Markets, and PolicyChair: Tim Mount Introduction to Economics, Markets and Policy Minitrack 2284 Tim Mount Cost Allocation in Ancillary Service Markets 2285 Tobias Haring and Gran Andersson Electrical Energy Storage Systems: Technologies State-of-the-Art, Techno-economic Benefits and Applications Analysis 2295 P. Medina, A.W. Bizuayehu, J.P.S. Catalo, E.M.G. Rodrigues, and J. Contreras Electricity Restructuring, Consumer Prices and the Cost of Capital: Lessons for the Modeling of Future Policy 2305 Leonard S. Hyman and Richard E. Schuler Barriers to Increasing the Role of Demand Resources in Electricity Markets 2314 Alberto J. Lamadrid, Tim Mount, Wooyoung Jeon, and Hao Lu Investigation of Non-zero Duality Gap Solutions to a Semidefinite Relaxation of the Optimal Power Flow Problem 2325 Daniel K. Molzahn, Bernard C. Lesieutre, and Christopher L. DeMarco Measurement of Energy Market Inefficiencies in the Coordination of Natural Gas & Power 2335 Richard D. Tabors and Seabron Adamson Robust Optimization Based Economic Dispatch for Managing System Ramp Requirement 2344 Anupam A. Thatte, Xu Andy Sun, and Le Xie Stochastic Optimal Power Flow with Uncertain Reserves from Demand Response 2353 Maria Vrakopoulou, Johanna L. Mathieu, and Gran Andersson The Effects of Residential Energy Efficiency on Electric Demand Response Programs 2363 Ward Jewell 
xxv 


Integrating Distributed and Renewable ResourcesChair: Seth Blumsack Introduction to Integrating Distributed and Renewable Resources Minitrack 2373 Seth Blumsack, David P. Chassin, and J. Charles Smith Correcting Optimal Transmission Switching for AC Power Flows 2374 Clayton Barrows, Seth Blumsack, and Paul Hines Effects of PV on Conventional Generation 2380 Rajatha Bhat, Miroslav Begovic, Insu Kim, and John Crittenden Fast Regulation Service Provision via Aggregation of Thermostatically Controlled Loads 2388 Borhan M. Sanandaji, He Hao, and Kameshwar Poolla Self-Balancing Distributed Energy in Power Grids: An Architecture Based on Autonomic Computing 2398 Jennifer Perez, Jessica Diaz, Carlos Vidal, Daniel Rodriguez, and Diego Fernndez Storage Sizing and Placement through Operational and Uncertainty-Aware Simulations 2408 Krishnamurthy Dvijotham, Misha Chertkov, and Scott Backhaus The Impact of Variable Market Price on Optimal Control of Wind-Hydro Storage System in Kenya 2417 Maureen Murage, Judith B. Cardell, June Lukuyu, and C. Lindsay Anderson Variable Generation, Reserves, Flexibility and Policy Interactions 2426 James Ryan, Erik Ela, Damian Flynn, and Mark OMalley Monitoring, Control, and ProtectionChair: Joe Eto Introduction to the Monitoring, Control, and Protection Minitrack 2435 Joe Eto A Real-Time Scheme for Validation of an Auto-regressive Time Series Model for Power System Ambient Inter-area Mode Estimation 2436 Gurudatha K. Pai and John W. Pierre Automatic Generation Control and Its Implementation in Real Time 2444 Dimitra Apostolopoulou, Peter W. Sauer, and Alejandro D. Domnguez-Garcia Congestion Measures for Organized Markets in the U.S 2453 Emily Fisher and Joseph H. Eto Grid Modernization: Seamless Integration of Protection, Optimization and Control 2463 A.P. Sakis Meliopoulos, George J. Cokkinides, Renke Huang, and Paul Myrda Modal Energy Trending for Ringdown Analysis in Power Systems Using Synchrophasors 2475 Zaid Tashman and Vaithianathan Mani Venkatasubramanian Phasor Measurement Unit Placement for Identifying Power Line Outages in Wide-Area Transmission System Monitoring 2483 Hao Zhu and Yiyu Shi Reliable Implementation of Robust Adaptive Topology Control 2493 M. Kezunovic, T. Popovic, G. Gurrala, P. Dehghanian, A. Esmaeilian, and M. Tasdighi 
xxvi 


Security-Constrained MIP Formulation of Topology Control Using Loss-Adjusted Shift Factors 2503 Evgeniy A. Goldis, Michael C. Caramanis, C. Russ Philbrick, Aleksandr M. Rudkevich and Pablo A. Ruiz Resilient NetworksChair: Jeff Dagle Introduction to Resilient Networks Minitrack 2510 Jeff Dagle GPU-Accelerated Solutions to Optimal Power Flow Problems 2511 Logan Rakai and William Rosehart Statistical Properties and Classification of N-2 Contingencies in Large Scale Power Grids 2517 P.A. Kaplunovich and K.S. Turitsyn The Impact of Size and Inhomogeneity on Power Transmission Network Complex System Dynamics 2527 B.A. Carreras, D.E. Newman, and I. Dobson Thread Group Multithreading: Accelerating the Computation of an Agent-Based Power System Modeling and Simulation ToolC GridLAB-D 2536 Shuangshuang Jin and David P. Chassin Information Technology in Healthcare TrackCo-Chairs: William G. Chismar and Tom Horan Introduction to the Information Technology in Healthcare Track 2546 William G. Chismar and Thomas A. Horan Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical InformaticsCo-Chairs: Hesham Ali and Kate Dempsey Introduction to Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical Informatics Minitrack 2547 Hesham H. Ali and Kathryn M. Dempsey SNP-SNP Interaction Using Gauss Chaotic Map Particle Swarm Optimization to Detect Susceptibility to Breast Cancer 2548 Li-Yeh Chuang, Yu-Da Lin, Hsueh-Wei Chang, and Cheng-Hong Yang Application of a Hybrid Text Mining Approach to the Study of Suicidal Behavior in a Large Population 2555 Kenric W. Hammond and Ryan J. Laundry Learning Predictive Models from Integrated Healthcare Data: Extending Pattern-Based and Generative Models to Capture Temporal and Cross-Attribute Dependencies 2562 Rui Henriques and Cludia Antunes Global Health IT Strategies and ApplicationsCo-Chairs: Joseph Tan, Sarah L. Patrick, and Michael Dohan Introduction to Global Health IT Strategies and Applications Minitrack 2570 Joseph Tan, Michael S. Dohan, and Sarah Patrick Medical Document Classification Based on MeSH 2571 Abdullah Muhammad Alghoson Mobile Personal Health Records: Research Agenda for Applications in Global Health 2576 Michael S. Dohan, Mohamed Abouzahra, and Joseph Tan 
xxvii 


HCI and Consumer Health InformaticsCo-Chairs: Richard Burkhard, Ann Fruhling, and Soussan Djamasbi Introduction to HCI and Consumer Health Informatics Minitrack 2586 Ann Fruhling, Rich Burkhard, and Soussan Djamasbi Alignment of Concerns: A Design Rationale for Patient Participation in eHealth 2587 Tariq Andersen, Jrgen Bansler, Finn Kensing, Jonas Moll, and Karen Dam Nielsen Determinants of Vertical and Horizontal Online Health Information Behavior 2597 Hye-Jin Paek and Thomas Hove Magic Mirror for Neurorehabilitation of People with Upper Limb Dysfunction Using Kinect 2607 Orlando Erazo, Jos A. Pino, Rosario Pino, Alfonso Asenjo, Carmen Fernndez, and Alfonso Asenjo Text Simplification Tools: Using Machine Learning to Discover Features that Identify Difficult Text 2616 David Kauchak, Obay Mouradi, Christopher Pentoney, and Gondy Leroy Towards a Cardiology/EHR Interaction Workflow Usability Evaluation Method 2626 Lisa A. Grabenbauer, Ann L. Fruhling, and John R. Windle Video Conference as a Tool to Enable Participation in Discharge PlanningExperiences from Implementers about the Implementation Process 2636 Malin Hofflander, Lina Nilsson, Christel Borg, and Sara Eriksn Incorporating an Evidence Base into mHealth Design and AnalysisCo-Chairs: Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley Introduction to Evidence-Based Health Design and Analysis Minitrack 2644 Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley A Tailoring Algorithm to Optimize Behavior Change 2645 Janet Brigham, Harold S. Javitz, Ruth E. Krasnow, Lisa M. Jack, and Gary E. Swan Building an Evidence Base Using Qualitative Data for mHealth Development 2655 Beth Bock, Nancy Barnett, Rochelle Rosen, Kristen Walaska, Herpreet Thind, and Victoria Cobb Enabling Patient Information Handoff from Pre-hospital Transport Providers to Hospital Emergency Departments: Design-Science Approach to Field Testing 2665 Abdullah Murad, Benjamin Schooley, Thomas Horan, and Yousef Abed Mobile Medical Applications for Melanoma Risk Assessment: False Assurance or Valuable Tool 2675 Xavier Chadwick, Lois J. Loescher, Monika Janda, and H. Peter Soyer IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in HealthcareCo-Chairs: Ton Spil, Cynthia LeRouge, Carla Wiggins, and Leigh Cellucci Introduction to IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in Healthcare Minitrack 2685 Leigh Cellucci, Cynthia LeRouge, Ton Spil, and Carla Wiggins A Framework to Improve Coordinated Action toward the Adoption and Implementation of Health Information Exchanges 2686 John C. Pendergrass and C. Ranganathan 
xxviii 


A Review of Health Information Technology Implementation Success Factors: Importance of Regulation and Finance 2693 Thi Thanh Hai Nguyen, Kaija Saranto, Tommi Tapanainen, and Diana Ishmatova Adoption of Assistive Technologies for Aged Care: A Realist Review of Recent Studies 2706 Suchada Vichitvanichphong, Amir Talaei-Khoei, Donald Kerr, and Amir Hossein Ghapanchi Adoption of Electronic Health Record System: Multiple Theoretical Perspectives 2716 Qiwei Gan and Qing Cao Effects of Online Advertising Strategy on Attitude towards Healthcare Service 2725 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong EMR Adoption among Office Based Physicians and Practices: Impact of Peer-to-Peer Interactions, Peer Support and Online Forums 2733 Priya Nambisan Environment versus Partnering Experience: An Exploration of Chinese Healthcare IT Manager Attitudes toward Innovation of Services 2741 Dominic Thomas, Yurong Yao, and Xitong Guo Examining the Social Influence on Information Technology Sustained Use in a Community Health System: A Hierarchical Bayesian Learning Method Analysis 2751 Haijing Hao, Rema Padman, Baohong Sun, and Rahul Telang Exploring User Acceptance of a Text-Message Based Health Intervention 2759 Maya Corneille, Lemuria Carter, Naomi M. Hall-Byers, Trenette Clark, and Sinead Younge Factors Explaining Physicians Acceptance of Electronic Health Records 2768 Katharina Steininger, Barbara Stiglbauer, Bernd Baumgartner, and Bernhard Engleder Finding Value While Planning a Statewide Health Information Exchange 2778 Dana Edberg, Lynn OMara, and Jeanne Wendel General Causality Orientations and the Adoption of Integrated Personal Health Records Systems: A Latent Class Analysis with Distal Outcomes 2788 Vahid Assadi and Khaled Hassanein Governance of Open Source Electronic Health Record Projects: A Successful Case of a Hybrid Model 2798 Placide Poba-Nzaou, Josianne Marsan, Guy Par, and Louis Raymond Investigating the Influence of Psychological Ownership and Resistance on Usage Intention among Physicians 2808 Tim Smith, Gerald Grant, and Alejandro Ramirez Personal Health Records Success: Why Google Health Failed and What Does that Mean for Microsoft HealthVault 2818 Ton Spil and Richard Klein Recognizing Patient Safety Importance through Instrument Validation on Physicians Assessment of an EHR 2828 Cherie Noteboom, Kathryn Dempsey, and Ann Fruhling Telepathology Implementation Challenges and Benefits: A Scoping Review 2838 Julien Meyer and Guy Par 
xxix 


The Use of Health Information Technology in Ambulatory Surgery Centers 2848 Carla Wiggins and Teri S. Peterson Understanding Stakeholder Behavior in Nationwide Electronic Health Infrastructure Implementation 2857 Philipp Klcker IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare EnvironmentsCo-Chairs: Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis and Patricia Oberndorf Introduction to IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare Environments Minitrack 2867 Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis, and Patricia Oberndorf A Business Process Management Approach to Perioperative Supplies/Instrument Inventory and Workflow 2868 Jim Ryan, Carmen Lewis, Barbara Doster, and Sandra Daily A Guiding Framework for Ontology Reuse in the Biomedical Domain 2878 Tejal Shah, Fethi Rabhi, Pradeep Ray, and Kerry Taylor A Neuro-fuzzy Approach to Bad Debt Recovery in Healthcare 2888 Donghui Shi, Jozef Zurada, and Jian Guan A Pervasive Mobile Assistance System for Health and Fitness Scenarios 2898 Andreas Emrich, Alexandra Theobalt, Frederik Leonhardt, Snke Knoch, Dirk Werth and Peter Loos A Smartphone-Based System for Population-Scale Anonymized Public Health Data Collection and Intervention 2908 Andrew Clarke and Robert Steele Analyzing and Modeling of Medical Data on Distributed Computing Infrastructures 2918 Gabor Terstyanszky, Tamas Kiss, Vladimir Korkhov, and Silvia D. Olabarriaga ASeCS: Assistive Self-Care Software Architectures for Delivering Service in Care Homes 2928 Reza Shojanoori, Radmila Juric, Mahi Lohi, and Gabor Terstyanszky Automating the Integration of Clinical Studies into Medical Ontologies 2938 Mark Roantree, Jim ODonoghue, Noel OKelly, Martin van Boxtel, and Sebastian Khler Bridging Electronic Health Record Access to the Cloud 2948 Brian Coats and Subrata Acharya Decision Support in Evaluating the Impacts of Mental Disorders on Work Ability 2958 Juha Kemppinen, Jukka Korpela, Kalle Elfvengren, Timo Salmisaari, and Jussi Polkko Factors of Access Control Management in Electronic Healthcare: The Patients Perspective 2967 Thomas Trojer, Basel Katt, Tlay zata, Ruth Breu, Patrick Mangesius, and Thomas Schabetsberger 
xxx 


Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for HealthcareCo-Chairs: Freimut Bodendorf Nilmini Wickramasinghe, and Carolin Durst Introduction to Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for Healthcare Minitrack 2977 Freimut Bodendorf, Carolin Durst, and Nilmini Wickramasinghe A Scalable Services Framework for Modeling Service Exchange Networks 2978 Hossein Seif Zadeh, Don Lowe, and Ivan Gavanovich Information Security and Privacy of Patient-Centered Health IT Services: What Needs to Be Done 2984 Tobias Dehling and Ali Sunyaev Tackling Complexity in E-health with Actor-Network Theory 2994 Indrit Troshani and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Using Self-Regulation Theory to Inform Technology-Based Behavior Change Interventions 3004 Amr Soror and Fred Davis Internet and the Digital Economy TrackCo-Chairs: Dave King and Alan Dennis Introduction to Internet and Digital Economy Track 3013 David King and Alan Dennis Customer Engagement and Webflow User ExperienceCo-Chairs: Petri Parvinen, Maurits Kaptein and Harri Oinas-Kukkoken Introduction to Customer Engagement and Webflow User Experience Minitrack 3014 Petri Parvinen, Harri Oinas-Kukkonen, and Maurits Kaptein Designing Flow Experience on the Web: A Grounded Theory of Online Shopping Flow 3015 Rolf Mahnke Does Gamification Work?A Literature Review of Empirical Studies on Gamification 3025 Juho Hamari, Jonna Koivisto, and Harri Sarsa Exploring the Effects of Information Processing Perceptions on Consumers Website Advice Continuance Intention 3035 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong Flow or No Flow? A Qualitative Study of Health Behavior Change Support System 3044 Pasi Karppinen, Tuomas Alahivl, Terhi Jokelainen, Anna-Maria Kernen, Tuire Salonurmi and Harri Oinas-Kukkonen Practical Findings from Applying Innovative Design Usability Evaluation Technologies for Mockups of Web Applications 3054 Luis Rivero, Marcos Kalinowski, and Tayana Conte Electronic MarketingCo-Chairs: Bruce Weinberg, Ajit Kambil, and Arnold Kamis Introduction to Electronic Marketing Minitrack 3064 Bruce D. Weinberg, Arnold Kamis, and Ajit Kambil 
xxxi 


Customer Loyalty to C2C Online Shopping Platforms: An Exploration of the Role of Customer Engagement 3065 Christy M.K. Cheung, Xiabing Zheng, and Matthew K.O. Lee Digital and Social Media in Pro Sports: Analysis of the 2013 UEFA Top Four 3073 Marlen Jurisch, Helmut Krcmar, Hand J. Scholl, Kai Wang, Yuan Wang, Grant Woods Donghe Xu, and Yaxing Yao Effects of Attribute Framing Varying with the Elaboration in Online Shopping: An Eye-Tracking Approach 3083 Shu-Fei Yang and Hsin-Hui Lin Paid Search: Modeling Rank Dependent Behavior 3093 Chris K. Anderson and Ming Cheng Real-Time Adaptation of Influence Strategies in Online Selling 3100 Maurits Kaptein and Petri Parvinen Running and ChasingThe Competition between Paid Search Marketing and Search Engine Optimization 3110 Kai Li, Mei Lin, Zhangxi Lin, and Bo Xing The Happiness Premium: The Impact of Emotion on Individuals Willingness to Pay in Online Auctions 3120 Lingyao \(Ivy Understanding Competition Using Big Consumer Search Data 3129 Daniel M. Ringel and Bernd Skiera Why Arent the Stars Aligned? An Analysis of Online Review Content and Star Ratings 3139 Susan M. Mudambi, David Schuff, and Zhewei Zhang Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy ResearchCo-Chairs: Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston and Anthony Vance Introduction to Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy Research Minitrack 3148 Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston, and Anthony Vance A Longitudinal Study of Information Privacy on Mobile Devices 3149 Mark J. Keith, Jeffry S. Babb, and Paul Benjamin Lowry A Longitudinal Study to Determine Non-technical Deterrence Effects of Severity and Communication of Internet Use Policy for Reducing Employee Internet Abuse 3159 Morgan Shepherd, Roberto Mejias, and Gary Klein Assessing Sunk Cost Effect on Employees Intentions to Violate Information Security Policies in Organizations 3169 Miranda Kajtazi, Burcu Bulgurcu, Hasan Cavusoglu, and Izak Benbasat Factors Affecting Perceptions of Privacy Breach among Smartphone Application Users 3178 Stanislav Mamonov and Raquel Benbunan-Fich Improving Compliance with Password Guidelines: How User Perceptions of Passwords and Security Threats Affect Compliance with Guidelines 3188 Florence Mwagwabi, Tanya McGill, and Michael Dixon 
xxxii 


Location Based Services and Information Privacy Concerns among Literate and Semi-literate Users 3198 Adrian Z.Y. Tan, Wen Yong Chua, and Klarissa T.T. Chang Rethinking the Information Security Risk Practices: A Critical Social Theory Perspective 3207 Devinder Thapa and Dan Harnesk Short-Time Non-work-related Computing and Creative Performance 3215 Jungwon Kuem and Mikko Siponen The Effect of Providing Visualizations in Privacy Policies on Trust in Data Privacy and Security 3224 Jrg Becker, Marcel Heddier, Ayten ksz, and Ralf Knackstedt Why Individuals Commit Information Security Violations: Neural Correlates of Decision Processes and Self-Control 3234 Qing Hu, Robert West, Laura Smarandescu, and Zachary Yaple Innovation and the Digital EconomyCo-Chairs: Christophe Vetterli and Walter Brenner Introduction to Innovation and the Digital Economy Minitrack 3244 Walter Brenner and Christophe Vetterli Innovate on PurposeFactors Contributing to Innovation in IT Outsourcing 3245 Anna-Luise Boehm, Bjoern Michalik, Nikolaus Schmidt, and Dirk Basten Strategic Capabilities of Mass Customization Based E-Commerce: Construct Development and Empirical Test 3255 Frank Piller, Thorsten Harzer, Christoph Ihl, and Fabrizio Salvador Open Movements: FLOSS, Open Contents, Open Access and Open CommunitiesCo-Chairs: Wolfgang Bein, Clinton Jeffery, and Vandana Singh Introduction to Open Movements Minitrack 3265 Wolfgang Bein and Clinton Jeffery Forge++: The Changing Landscape of FLOSS Development 3266 Megan Squire Its Not Only about Writing Code: An Investigation of the Notion of Citizenship Behaviors in the Context of Free/Libre/Open Source Software Communities 3276 Kevin Daniel Andr Carillo, Sid Huff, and Brenda Chawner Paid vs. Volunteer Work in Open Source 3286 Dirk Riehle, Philipp Riemer, Carsten Kolassa, and Michael Schmidt Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on SocietyCo-Chairs: Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia and Fernando Beltrn Introduction to Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on Society Minitrack 3296 Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia, and Fernando Beltrn An Application of UTAUT2 on Social Recommender Systems: Incorporating Social Information for Performance Expectancy 3297 Oliver Oechslein, Marvin Fleischmann, and Thomas Hess 
xxxiii 


Diffusion and Acceptance of Cloud Computing in SMEs: Towards a Valence Model of Relevant Factors 3307 Mark Stieninger and Dietmar Nedbal Information Technology Availability and Use in the United States: A Multivariate and Geospatial Analysis by State 3317 James B. Pick, Avijit Sarkar, and Jeremy Johnson Multi-casting in Mountainous Regions of Developing Countries: Analysis through ICT Institutions, and Capabilities Perspectives 3327 Julian M. Bass and Devinder Thapa Tactile Experiences: User Interpretations and Meaning with Tablets 3337 Efpraxia D. Zamani, George M. Giaglis, and Athanasia Pouloudi Triggering Intention to Use to Actual UseEmpirical Evidence from Self-Service Checkout SCO 3347 Esko Penttinen, Tapani Rinta-Kahila, Mikko Rnkk, and Timo Saarinen Knowledge Systems TrackCo-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Murray Jennex Introduction to the Knowledge Systems Track 3356 Murray Jennex and David T. Croasdell Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of BeliefsCo-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Introduction to the Minitrack on Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of Beliefs 3357 David Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Cultural Identity Restoration and Purposive Website Design: A Hermeneutic Study of the Chickasaw and Klamath Tribes 3358 Amber G. Young and Shaila M. Miranda Deaf Culture and Sign Language Writing SystemA Database for a New Approach to Writing System Recognition Technology 3368 Cayley Guimares, Jeferson F. Guardezi, Luis Eduardo Oliveira, and Sueli Fernandes Indigenous Knowledge Sharing in Sarawak: A System-Level View and Its Implications for the Cultural Heritage Sector 3378 Rashidah Bolhassan, Jocelyn Cranefield, and Dan Dorner Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge SystemsCo-Chairs: Stefan Smolnik and Timo Kkl Introduction to Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge Systems Minitrack 3389 Stefan Smolnik and Timo Kkl Conceptual Modeling for Mobile Maintenance: The ComVantage Case 3390 Robert Andrei Buchmann Formal Aspects of Enterprise Modeling Methods: A Comparison Framework 3400 Domenik Bork and Hans-Georg Fill 
xxxiv 


Quality Measures for Documentation of Best Practices 3410 Meshari M.S. Alwazae, Erik Perjons, and Harald Kjellin From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems ResearchCo-Chairs Kevin Lee Elder, Alan Litchfield, and Andrew Urbaczewski Introduction to the Minitrack From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems Research 3420 Alan Litchfield and Andrew Urbaczewski Transforming Practice Using Theoretical Framing to Improve Organizational Processes 3421 Jordan Eschler, Shrikant Palkar, and Hazel Taylor Knowledge Management and SecurityCo-Chairs: Alexandra Durcikova and Murray Jennex Introduction to Knowledge Management and Security Minitrack 3431 Alexandra Durcikova and Murray E. Jennex Designing Effective Knowledge Transfer Practices to Improve IS Security Awareness and Compliance 3432 Tonia Sannicolas-Rocca, Benjamin Schooley, and Janine L. Spears Genre-Based Assessment of Information and Knowledge Security Risks 3442 Ali Mohammad Padyab, Tero Pivrinta, and Dan Harnesk Integrating IS Security with Knowledge Management: Are We Doing Enough to Thwart the Persistent Threat 3452 Murray Jennex and Alexandra Durcikova Knowledge EconomicsCo-Chairs: Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Introduction to Knowledge Economics Minitrack 3460 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki The Contours of Crowd Capability 3461 John Prpi and Prashant Shukla The Evolution of Knowledge Economics through the Course of Time: An Analysis of the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS 3471 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Visualisation of Knowledge Mapping for Information Systems Evaluation: A Manufacturing Context 3478 Amir Sharif, Muhammad Mustafa Kamal, and Zahir Irani Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and ExchangeCo-Chairs: K.D. Joshi, Mark Nissen and Lynne Cooper Introduction to Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and Exchange Minitrack 3488 K.D. Joshi, Mark E. Nissen, and Lynne Cooper A Social Capital Perspective to Understand Individual Contribution of Social Support in Healthcare Virtual Support Communities 3489 Kuang-Yuan Huang and Indushobha Chengalur-Smith 
xxxv 


Creation of Need Knowledge in Organizations: An Abductive Framework 3499 Alexander Kaiser, Birgit Fordinal, and Florian Kragulj Error Occurrence: Successful versus Unsuccessful Unlearning in Individuals 3509 Julee H. Hafner, Timothy J. Ellis, and William Hafner Individuals Interaction with Organizational Knowledge under Innovative and Affective Team Climates: A Multilevel Approach to Knowledge Adoption and Transformation 3515 Jinyoung Min, Junyeong Lee, Sunghan Ryu, and Heeseok Lee Information Quality: The Importance of Context and Trade-Offs 3525 Anna L. McNab and D. Alan Ladd Sustainable Value and Generativity in the Ecological Metadata Language \(EML Toward New Knowledge and Investigations 3533 Ben Li Towards a Knowledge-Based Framework for Enterprise Content Management 3543 Thang Le Dinh, Tim A. Rickenberg, Hans-Georg Fill, and Michael H. Breitner Within-Team Variation of Shared Knowledge Structures: A Business Performance Study 3553 Ronald Freeze and Pamela Schmidt Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity ManagementCo-Chairs: Suzanne Zyngier, Danny Samson, and Marianne Gloet Introduction to Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity Management Minitrack 3563 Suzanne Zyngier, Marianne Gleot, and Danny Samson A Framework for Positioning and Assessing Innovation Capability from an Organizational Perspective 3564 Lilibeth Rodrguez, Jessica Daz, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer Prez, and Agustn Yage Managing Knowledge and Innovation for Performance 3574 Marianne Gloet and Danny Samson Organizational Ambidexterity Building via Strategic Learning and Business Learning 3584 Yan Mengling, Yu Yan, and Dong Xiaoying Things to Maintain or Change: The Importance of Critical Territory in Post-acquisition Integration Boundary Issues 3594 Dongcheol Heo and Heeseok Lee Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance MeasurementsCo-Chairs: Murray Jennex Stefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Introduction to Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance Measurements Minitrack 3604 Murray E. Jennex, Stefan Smolnik, and David T. Croasdell Enhancing the Motivation, Opportunity, and Ability of Knowledge Workers to Participate in Knowledge Exchange 3605 Kelly J. Fadel and Alexandra Durcikova 
xxxvi 


Knowledge Management Success in Practice 3615 Murray E. Jennex, Sefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Profile in Leadership: Adding Definition to Leadership as a Component of KMS Success 3625 Vincent Scovetta and Timothy J. Ellis Shedding Light on the Impact Dimension of Information Systems Success: A Synthesis of the Literature 3635 Andrea Herbst, Nils Urbach, and Jan vom Brocke The Relationship between  KM Strategies and IT Applications in SMEs 3645 Naief Azyabi, Julie Fisher, Kerry Tanner, and Shijia Gao Organizational Systems and Technology TrackChair: Hugh Watson Introduction to Organizational Systems and Technology Track 3655 Hugh J. Watson Advances in Design Research for Information SystemsCo-Chairs: Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer and Omar El Sawy Introduction to Advances in Design Research for Information Systems Minitrack 3656 Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer, and Omar El Sawy A Prototype for Information-Dense IT Project Risk Reporting: An Action Design Research Approach 3657 Martina Beer, Marco C. Meier, Benjamin Mosig, and Florian Probst Activity-Based Costing as a Design Science Artifact 3667 Philip Huysmans and Peter De Bruyn An Information System Design Product Theory for the Abstract Class of Integrated Requirements and Delivery Management Systems 3677 Yikun Lu and Timo Kkl Introducing a Game Approach Towards IS Requirements Specification 3687 Mika Yasuoka, Kyoichi Kadoya, and Takashi Niwa Logic for Accumulation of Design Science Research Theory 3697 Jan Holmstrm, Tuure Tunanen, and Jouni Kauremaa Towards a Design Theory for Trustworthy Information Systems 3707 Leslie J. Waguespack, David J. Yates, and William T. Schiano Using Entropys Justificatory Knowledge for a Business Process Design Theory 3717 Peter De Bruyn, Philip Huysmans, Gilles Oorts, Herwig Mannaert, and Jan Verelst Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big DataCo-Chairs: Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Introduction to Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big Data Minitrack 3727 Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Social Media Analytics and Business Value: A Theoretical Framework and Case Study 3728 Nargiza Bekmamedova and Graeme Shanks 
xxxvii 


Structuring Collaborative Business Intelligence: A Literature Review 3738 Jens Kaufmann and Peter Chamoni Think Big with Big Data: Identifying Suitable Big Data Strategies in Corporate Environments 3748 Katharina Ebner, Thilo Bhnen, and Nils Urbach User Acceptance of Business Intelligence \(BI Social Influence, and Situational Constraints 3758 Tom E. Yoon, Biswadip Ghosh, and Bong-Keun Jeong Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and ChallengesCo-Chairs: Frank Armour and Steve Kaisler Introduction to Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and Challenges Minitrack 3767 Frank Armour and Stephen Kaisler Business Process Modeling Language for Performance Evaluation 3768 Azeem Lodhi, Veit Kppen, Stefan Wind, Gunter Saake, and Klaus Turowski Dynamics of Cloud-Based Software as a Service in Small Communities of Complex Organizations 3778 Jenny Leonard Enterprise Architecture Practice and Organizational Agility: An Exploratory Study 3788 Terje Fallmyr and Bendik Bygstad EVOLIS Framework: A Method to Study Information Systems Evolution Records 3798 Alexandre Mtrailler and Thibault Estier Green Business Process ManagementA Definition and Research Framework 3808 Nicky Opitz, Henning Krp, and Lutz M. Kolbe Optimizing the Performance of Automated Business Processes Executed on Virtualized Infrastructure 3818 Christian Janiesch, Ingo Weber, Jrn Kuhlenkamp, and Michael Menzel Toward a Decision Model for Master Data Application Architecture 3827 Ehsan Baghi, Simon Schlosser, Verena Ebner, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Toward a Functional Reference Model for Business Rules Management 3837 Simon Schlosser, Ehsan Baghi, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Visualizing and Measuring Enterprise Application Architecture: An Exploratory Telecom Case 3847 Robert Lagerstrm, Carliss Baldwin, Alan MacCormack, and Stephan Aier Business Process IntelligenceCo-Chairs: Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar Introduction to Business Process Intelligence Minitrack 3857 Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar A Case Study on Analyzing Inter-organizational Business Processes from EDI Messages Using Physical Activity Mining 3858 Robert Engel and R.P. Jagadeesh Chandra Bose Challenges of Social Business Process Management 3868 Nicolas Pflanzl and Gottfried Vossen 
xxxviii 


Development of an Intelligent Maturity Model-Tool for Business Process Management 3878 Nico Krivograd, Peter Fettke, and Peter Loos Improving Structure: Logical Sequencing of Mined Process Models 3888 Michael Werner and Markus Nttgens Mining Knowledge Sharing Processes in Online Discussion Forums 3898 G. Alan Wang, Harry Jiannan Wang, Jiexun Li, and Weiguo Fan Digital Technologies and Organizational InnovationCo-Chairs: Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen and Youngjin Yoo Introduction to Digital Technologies and Organizational Innovation Minitrack 3908 Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen, and Youngjin Yoo Architectural Characteristics of Digital Services Enabled by Embedded Technology: A Study on Remote Diagnostics Services 3909 Soumitra Chowdhury, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria kesson Business Models of Developer Platforms in the Telecommunications IndustryAn Explorative Case Study Analysis 3919 Hannes Kuebel, Felix Limbach, and Ruediger Zarnekow Computer Aided Business Model Design: Analysis of Key Features Adopted by Users 3929 Boris Fritscher and Yves Pigneur IT Capability Configurations for Innovation: An Empirical Study of Industrial SMEs 3939 Louis Raymond, Sylvestre Uwizeyemungu, Bruno Fabi, and Jose St-Pierre Structural and Behavioral Fit in Software Sourcing Alignment 3949 Marko Nhren, Armin Heinzl, and Thomas Kude Succeeding with Building Information Modeling: A Case Study of BIM Diffusion in a Healthcare Construction Project 3959 Christoph Merschbrock and Bjrn Erik Munkvold Emerging Issues Facing the Computing WorkforceCo-Chairs: Cynthia Riemenschneider and Deborah J Armstrong Introduction to Emerging Issues Facing the Computing Workforce Minitrack 3969 Cynthia K. Riemenschneider and Deborah J. Armstrong IT Professionals and Their Psychological Contract in the IT Profession 3970 Ren Moquin and Cindy K. Riemenschneider The Role of Voice in Retention of IT Workers: Paving the Higher Road 3980 Andrea J. Hester, Jo Ellen Moore, and Susan E. Yager Toward an Understanding of Job Satisfaction on Agile Teams: Agile Development as Work Redesign 3993 John F. Tripp and Cynthia K. Riemenschneider What Do We Know about FLOSS Developers Attraction, Retention, and Commitment? A Literature Review 4003 Andreas Schilling 
xxxix 


Why IS after All? An Explorative Analysis of Professionals Letters of Study Motivation 4013 Steffen Illig, Sven Laumer, Christian Maier, and Tim Weitzel Enterprise System Integration: Issues and AnswersCo-Chairs: Marinos Themistocleous, Gail Corbitt and Paulo Rupino da Cunha Introduction to Enterprise System Integration: Issues and Answers Minitrack 4023 Gail Corbitt, Marinos Themistocleous, and Paulo Rupino Da Cunha Coping with Requirements UncertaintyA Case Study of an Enterprise-Wide Record Management System 4024 Bjoern Michalik, Marcus Keutel, and Werner Mellis Strategic Alignment of Enterprise Systems and Business Strategies under Systems and Bivariate Approaches 4034 Nazim Taskin, Jacques Verville, and Tayfun Keskin The Impact Mechanism of Organizational Culture on ERP Assimilation: A Multi-case Study 4044 Yuanyuan Guo, Yuqiang Feng, and Chaoyou Wang Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and SocietyCo-Chairs: Eric Clemons, Rob Kauffman, and Tom Weber Introduction to Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and Society Minitrack 4054 Eric K. Clemons, Robert J. Kauffman, and Thomas A. Weber How Can Substitution and Complementarity Effects Be Leveraged for Broadband Internet Services Strategy 4055 Gwangjae Jung, Youngsoo Kim, and Robert J. Kauffman How Should Carriage Disputes in Digital Media Be Addressed 4064 Frank MacCrory and Shivendu Shivendu Incentive Issues and Solution Mechanisms for Knowledge Transfer with Enterprise 2.0 Technologies: A Game-Theoretic Approach 4074 Xianjun Geng, Lihui Lin, and Andrew B. Whinston Investigations into Consumers Preferences Concerning Privacy: An Initial Step towards the Development of Modern and Consistent Privacy Protections around the Globe 4083 Eric K. Clemons, Josh Wilson, and Fujie Jin IT Investments and Firm Stock Market Value: The Mediating Role of Stock Analysts 4093 Xueming Luo, Bin Gu, and Cheng Zhang News Processing during Speculative Bubbles: Evidence from the Oil Market 4103 Stefan Feuerriegel, Max W. Lampe, and Dirk Neumann Product Versus Non-product Oriented Social Media Platforms: Online Consumer Opinion Composition and Evolution 4113 Jianxiong Huang, Waifong Boh, and Kim Huat Goh The Role of Disseminative Capacity in HIT Adoption: An Empirical Analysis 4123 Debabrata Dey, Atanu Lahiri, and Gang Peng Collaborative Housing and the Intermediation of Moral Hazard 4133 Thomas A. Weber 
xl 


Elimination by Aspects in Electronic CommerceEvidence from Online Marketplace and Implications for Empirical Model Specification 4142 Mohan Wang, Bin Gu, and Qiang Ye Evaluating Electronic Market Designs: The Effects of Competitive Arousal and Social Facilitation on Electronic Group Buying 4148 Martin Yuecheng Yu, Karl R. Lang, and Alex Pelaez Information and Information Systems in Crisis ResponseCo-Chairs: Dorothy E. Leidner, Anouck Adrot and Eric W.T. Ngai Introduction to Information and Information Systems in Crisis Response Minitrack 4158 Dorothy E. Leidner and Anouck Adrot Designing an Optimized Alert System Based on Geospatial Location Data 4159 Kimberly Zeitz, Randy Marchany, and Joseph Tront Semantic Representations of Actors and Resource Allocation through Reasoning in Humanitarian Crises 4169 Aladdin Shamoug, Radmila Juric, and Shamimabi Paurobally Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System DesignCo-Chairs: Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Introduction to Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System Design Minitrack 4179 Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Do Competitive Environments Have an Effect on Managerial Decision Making? An Empirical Investigation of the Newsvendor Problem 4180 Tong Wu and Abraham Seidmann From Bits to Atoms: 3D Printing in the Context of Supply Chain Strategies 4190 Henrik J. Nyman and Peter Sarlin Greening the Service Selection in Cloud Computing: The Case of Federated ERP Solutions 4200 Holger Schrdl and Paulina Simkin IT Outsourcing: An IS Perspective 4210 Stefan Bensch, Ralph-Josef Andris, Christian Gahm, and Axel Tuma Quantitative Case Study: Use of Pharmacy Patient Information Systems to Improve Operational Efficiency 4220 Gregory Dobson, David Tilson, Vera Tilson, and Curtis E. Haas Relational Capital and Performance: Assessing the Mediating Role of Supply Chain Agility and the Moderating Role of Environmental Contexts 4229 Zhao Cai, Hefu Liu, Qian Huang, Liang Liang, and Xiao-Liang Shen Teleophthalmology for Diabetic Patients: Saving Vision through IT 4239 Balaraman Rajan, Abraham Seidmann, and Rajeev Ramchandran 
xli 


Information Technology for DevelopmentCo-Chairs: Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James Pick Introduction to Information Technology for Development Minitrack 4244 Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James B. Pick Achieving Development Outcomes through Technology Interventions in a Nonprofit Organization 4245 Mehruz Kamal Aligning IT Capabilities with the Information Requirements of International SMEs: Information Processing Theory Revisited 4254 Vincent Dutot, Franois Bergeron, and Louis Raymond Steering Institutionalization through Institutional Work: The Case of an eProcurement System in Indonesian Local Government 4264 Fathul Wahid and Maung K. Sein IT and Project ManagementCo-Chairs: Sue Newell, Jacky Swan, and Joseph Weiss Introduction to IT and Project Management Minitrack 4275 Joseph Weiss, Jacky Swan, and Sue Newell Explaining Emergence and Consequences of Specific Formal Controls in IS OutsourcingA Process-View 4276 Thomas L. Huber, Thomas A. Fischer, Laurie Kirsch, and Jens Dibbern Exploring the Constituents of Benefits Management: Identifying Factors Necessary for the Successful Realization of Value of Information Technology 4286 Kunal Mohan, Frederik Ahlemann, and Jessica Braun Is a Challenged Project One of the Final Outcomes for an IT Project 4296 Umar A. Altahtooh and Margaret W. Emsley Reducing I.T. Project Management Failures: Early Empirical Results 4305 Gezinus J. Hidding and John M. Nicholas Rethinking Communication in IT Project Management 4315 Judy McKay, Peter Marshall, and Nick Grainger Risk Management in Video Game Development Projects 4325 Marc Schmlaz, Aimee Finn, and Hazel Taylor IT Governance and Its MechanismsChair: Wim Van Grembergen Introduction to IT Governance and Its Mechanisms Minitrack 4335 Wim Van Grembergen A Nomological Network Analysis of Research on Information Security Management Systems 4336 Fernando Parra and Laura L. Hall Does Inclusion of CIO in Top Management Team Impact Firm Performance? Evidence from a Long-Term Event Analysis 4346 Qing Hu, Ali Alper Yayla, and Yu Lei 
xlii 


E-Business IT Governance Revisited: An Attempt towards Outlining a Novel Bi-directional Business/IT Alignment in COBIT5 4356 Yannick Bartens, Frederik Schulte, and Stefan Vo Evolvement of Business-IT Alignment over Time: A Situated Change Perspective 4366 Heinz-Theo Wagner IT Governance Effectiveness and Its Antecedents: An Empirical Examination in Brazilian Firms 4376 Guilherme Lerch Lunardi, Antonio Carlos G. Maada, and Joo Luiz Becker IT Governance Patterns in the Portuguese Financial Industry 4386 Ruben Pereira, Rafael Almeida, and Miguel Mira da Silva Middle Management and Information Systems Strategy: The Role of Awareness and Involvement 4396 Dorothy E. Leidner and Michael Milovich Jr On the Need for Evolvability Assessment in Value Management 4406 Kim Maes, Peter De Bruyn, Gilles Oorts, and Philip Huysmans On the Relevance of the Modularity Concept for Understanding Outsourcing Risk Factors 4416 Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Shazdada Benazeer, Alain De Beuckelaer, Steven De Haes and Jan Verelst The Board and CIO: The IT Alignment Challenge 4426 Jacques Coertze and Rossouw Von Solms The Influence of Culture on IT Governance: A Literature Review 4436 Parisa Aasi, Lazar Rusu, and Shengnan Han Towards an Application Life-Cycle Approach for Selective Outsourcing 4446 Saskia Zelt, Alexander Andreas Neff, Jochen Wulf, Falk Uebernickel, and Walter Brenner Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information TechnologyCo-Chairs: Michael Knight, Dawn Medlin and Dragos Vieru Introduction to Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information Technology Minitrack 4456 Michael B. Knight and B. Dawn Medlin A Nexus Analysis of Participation in Building an Information Infrastructure for the Future School 4457 Halkola Eija, Iivari Netta, Kinnula Marianne, Kuure Leena, and Molin-Juustila Tonja Accelerating Economic Inequality and the Moral Responsibilities of Corporate-Employed Technologists 4467 Alan E. Singer How Coaligned Stakeholder Support Enhances End User's Perceived ERP Performance? The Pivotal Role of ERP Identity 4474 Jeffrey C.F. Tai, Kai Wang, and Hsin-Lu Chang Managing the Achievement of Strategic Organizational Goals through Projects: Understanding the Role of Management Practices 4484 Kunal Mohan and Frederik Ahlemann When Too Much Usage is Too Much: Exploring the Process of IT Addiction 4494 Isaac Vaghefi and Liette Lapointe 
xliii 


Young People and Smart Phones: An Empirical Study on Information Security 4504 Balbir S. Barn, Ravinder Barn, and Jo-Pei Tan Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical SystemsCo-Chairs: Sirkka Jarvenpaa and Holly Lanham Introduction to Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical Systems Minitrack 4515 Sirkka L. Jarvenpaa and Holly J. Lanham Digital Visions vs. Product Practices: Understanding Tensions in Incumbent Manufacturing Firms 4516 Asif Akram, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria kesson How Did It Happen? A Memetic Theory of Interorganizational Information Systems Emergence and Evolution 4526 Thayanan Phuaphanthong and Tung Bui Learning at the Boundaries: An Action Agenda for Business Analysts 4536 Rajiv Vashist, Judith McKay, and Peter Marshall Reimagining the Higher Education Experience as a Socially-Enabled Complex Adaptive System 4546 Munir Mandviwalla and David Schuff Solving the Puzzle of Crowdfunding: Where Technology Affordances and Institutional Entrepreneurship Collide 4556 Claire Ingram, Robin Teigland, and Emmanuelle Vaast Theorizing Modes of Open Source Software Development 4568 A. Lindberg, Xuan Xiao, and Kalle Lyytinen Trust in Network OrganizationsA Literature Review on Emergent and Evolving Behavior in Network Organizations 4578 Marcel Morisse, Bettina Horlach, Wiebke Kappenberg, Jurate Petrikina, Florian Robel and Florian Steffens Theories in IS ResearchCo-Chairs: Scott Schneberger, Dirk Hovorka, and Kai Larsen Introduction to Theories in IS Research Minitrack 4588 Scott L. Schneberger, Dirk S. Hovorka, and Kai R. Larsen Applications of the Viable Systems Model in IS ResearchA Comprehensive Overview and Analysis 4589 Janek Richter and Dirk Basten Crafting Theory to Satisfy the Requirements of Explanation 4599 Allen S. Lee, Robert \(Bob Do Ontological Guidelines Improve Understandability of Conceptual Models? A Meta-analysis of Empirical Work 4609 Arash Saghafi and Yair Wand Identifying IT User Mindsets: Acceptance, Resistance and Ambivalence 4619 Liette Lapointe and Anne Beaudry 
xliv 


The Intellectual Core of the IS Field: A Systematic Exploration of Theories in Our Top Journals 4629 Daniel S. Soper, Ofir Turel, and Nitza Geri Theory Identity: A Machine-Learning Approach 4639 Kai R. Larsen, Dirk Hovorka, Jevin West, James Birt, James R. Pfaff, Trevor W. Chambers Zebula R. Sampedro, Nick Zager, and Bruce Vanstone Topics in Organizational Systems and TechnologyCo-Chairs: Mark Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Introduction to Topics in Organizational Systems and Technology Minitrack 4649 Mark N. Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Antecedents of IT OutsourcingA Longitudinal Approach 4650 Ralph Pfaller, Marina Fiedler, Arnold Picot, and Anja Tuschke Does IT Reputation Matter? Role of Senior Executives 4660 Jee-Hae Lim, Theophanis C. Stratopoulos, and Tony Wirjanto One Country, Three Types of CIOs: The Emergence of Technology Executives in China 4670 Mark W.S. Chun, Kai Sung, Charla Griffy-Brown, and Harvey Koeppel Paving the Way to a Productive RFID System: A Novel Action Research Based Study from Fashion Retail 4680 Thomas Buckel and Frdric Thiesse Perceptual Differences and Conflict in Packaged Software Acquisition: Results from a Multi-perspective Framing Analysis 4690 Stefan Harnisch, Jasmin Kaiser, and Peter Buxmann Process-Driven Data Quality ManagementAn Application of the Combined Conceptual Life Cycle Model 4700 Paul Glowalla, Patryk Balazy, Dirk Basten, and Ali Sunyaev Software Technology TrackCo-Chairs: Gul Agha and Rick Kazman Introduction to Software Technology Track 4710 Rick Kazman and Gul Agha Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and ProductsChair: Dan Greening Introduction to Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and Products Minitrack 4711 Daniel R. Greening State-of-the-Art: A Systematic Literature Review on Agile Information Systems Development 4712 Markus Hummel Teams That Finish Early Accelerate Faster: A Pattern Language for High Performing Scrum Teams 4722 Jeff Sutherland, Neil Harrison, and Joel Riddle The Influence of Organizational Factors on Inter-team Knowledge Sharing Effectiveness in Agile Environments 4729 Viviane Santos, Alfredo Goldman, Hernesto Filho, Dbora Martins, and Mariela Corts Theme-Based Product Release Planning: An Analytical Approach 4739 Nishant Agarwal, Reza Karimpour, and Guenther Ruhe 
xlv 


Toward an Understanding of Preference for Agile Software Development Methods from a Personality Theory Perspective 4749 David Bishop and Amit Deokar Agile and Lean Software EngineeringCo-Chairs: Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Introduction to Agile and Lean Software Engineering Minitrack 4759 Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Building Evolvable Software Using Normalized Systems Theory: A Case Study 4760 Gilles Oorts, Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Herwig Mannaert, Jan Verelst, and Arco Oost Combining Lean Thinking and Agile Methods for Software Development: A Case Study of a Finnish Provider of Wireless Embedded Systems Detailed 4770 Pilar Rodrguez, Jari Partanen, Pasi Kuvaja, and Markku Oivo Coordination in Large-Scale Agile Software Development: A Multiteam Systems Perspective 4780 Alexander Scheerer, Tobias Hildenbrand, and Thomas Kude Dual Application Model for Agile Software Engineering 4789 Ashley Aitken Exploring the Relationship between  Organizational Adoption Motives and the Tailoring of Agile Methods 4799 John F. Tripp and Deborah J. Armstrong Guiding Flexibility Investment in Agile Architecting 4807 Carlos Fernndez-Snchez, Jessica Daz, Jennifer Prez, and Juan Garbajosa Towards the Model Driven Organization 4817 Tony Clark, Vinay Kulkarni, Balbir Barn, Robert France, Ulrich Frank, and Dan Turk Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and PracticeCo-Chairs: Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Introduction to Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and Practice Minitrack 4827 Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Android Anti-forensics: Modifying CyanogenMod 4828 Karl-Johan Karlsson and William Bradley Glisson iOS Anti-forensics: How Can We Securely Conceal, Delete and Insert Data 4838 Christian DOrazio, Aswami Ariffin, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Teaching Digital Forensics Techniques within Linux Environments 4848 Lucas McDaniel and Brian Hay Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software AssuranceCo-Chairs: Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger and Richard George Introduction to Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software Assurance Minitrack 4857 Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger, and Richard George A Study of Ten Popular Android Mobile VoIP Applications: Are the Communications Encrypted 4858 Abdullah Azfar, Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo, and Lin Liu 
xlvi 


Evolving Secure Information Systems through Attack Simulation 4868 Elmar Kiesling, Andreas Ekelhart, Bernhard Grill, Christian Stummer, and Christine Strauss Patcher: An Online Service for Detecting, Viewing and Patching Web Application Vulnerabilities 4878 Fang Yu and Yi-Yang Tung REQcollect: Requirements Collection, Project Matching and Technology Transition 4887 Luanne Goldrich, Stephen Hamer, Martha McNeil, Thomas Longstaff, Robert Gatlin and Emmanuel Bello-Ogunu Signature Based Intrusion Detection for Zero-Day Attacks: \(Not 4895 Hannes Holm Towards a Holistic Understanding of Security Process: Formal Controls and Informal Relationships 4905 Max Soyref and Philip Seltsikas Utilizing Attack Graphs to Measure the Efficacy of Security Frameworks across Multiple Applications 4915 Francis J. Manning III and Frank J. Mitropoulos IS Education and TrainingCo-Chairs: Dan Port and Gary Kessler Introduction to IS Education and Training Minitrack 4921 Daniel Port and Gary C. Kessler Un of MOOC-Like, Third-Party Online Courses 4922 James H. Melton, Robert E. Miller, and Anil Kumar A Proposed Curriculum in Cybersecurity Education Targeting Homeland Security Students 4932 Gary C. Kessler and James D. Ramsay Developing Faculty Expertise in Information Assurance through Case Studies and Hands-On Experiences 4938 Xiaohong Yuan, Kenneth Williams, Huiming Yu, Bei-Tseng Chu, Audrey Rorrer, Li Yang Kathy Winters, and Joseph Kizza Exploring the Feasibility of Conducting Software Training in a Peer Learning Context with the Aid of Student-Produced Screencasts 4946 Tai-Yin Chi, Lorne Olfman, and Frank Lin Investigating User Acceptance of a Screenshot-Based Interaction System in the Context of Advanced Computer Software Learning 4956 Travis K. Huang Learning and Law Enforcement: How Community-Based Teaching Facilitates Improved Information Systems 4966 Kaethe Bect, Scott Beamon, Edward Delp, and David Ebert Teaching Theories Underlying Agile Methods in a Systems Development Course 4970 Adarsh Kumar Kakar The Hidden Job Requirements for a Software Engineer 4979 Cristina Marinovici, Harold Kirkham, and Kevin Glass 
xlvii 


Secure Cloud ComputingCo-Chairs: Bill Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin Introduction to Secure Cloud Computing Minitrack 4985 William J. Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin A Policy-Based Security Framework for Storage and Computation on Enterprise Data in the Cloud 4986 Sourya Joyee De and Asim K. Pal A Taxonomic Perspective on Certification Schemes: Development of a Taxonomy for Cloud Service Certification Criteria 4998 Stephan Schneider, Jens Lansing, Fangjian Gao, and Ali Sunyaev Analysis of Monolithic and Microkernel Architectures: Towards Secure Hypervisor Design 5008 Jordan Shropshire Cloud Computing Data ProtectionA Literature Review and Analysis 5018 Florian Pfarr, Thomas Buckel, and Axel Winkelmann Securing KVM-Based Cloud Systems via Virtualization Introspection 5028 Sheng-Wei Lee and Fang Yu SLA Information Management through Dependency Digraphs: The Case of Cloud Data Services 5038 Katerina Stamou, Verena Kantere, Jean-Henry Morin, and Michael Georgiou Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and ManagementCo-Chairs: Timo Kkl and Andrea Leitner Introduction to Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and Management Minitrack 5048 Timo Kkl and Andrea Leitner Analyzing Software Product Innovation Assessment by Using a Systematic Literature Review 5049 Agustn Yage, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer Prez, and Jessica Daz Which Factors Affect Software-as-a-Service Selection the Most? A Study from the Customers and the Vendors Perspective 5059 Ariana Polyviou, Nancy Pouloudi, and Stamatia Rizou Software Security for Mobile PlatformsCo-Chairs: Daniel Plakosh and Robert Seacord Introduction to Software Security for Mobile Platforms Minitrack 5069 Daniel Plakosh and Rocbert Seacord Enhancing User Privacy on Android Mobile Devices via Permissions Removal 5070 Quang Do, Ben Martini, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Malware Dynamic Recompilation 5080 Sbastien Josse Pointer Ownership Model 5090 David Svoboda and Lutz Wrage 
xlviii 


Wireless NetworksCo-Chairs: Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Introduction to Wireless Networks Minitrack 5100 Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala A Scalable Hidden-Markov Model Algorithm for Location-Based Services in WiMAX Networks 5101 John Roth, Murali Tummala, John McEachen, and James Scrofani Cell Range Expansion and Time Partitioning for Enhanced Inter-cell Interference Coordination in Heterogeneous Network 5109 Angmi Moon, Saransh Malik, Bora Kim, Hun Choi, Sooman Park, Cheolsung Kim, and Intae Hwang Novel MCS Based Relay Protocols for Throughput Optimization Using AMC in LTE-Advanced System 5114 Saransh Malik, Sangmi Moon, Bora Kim, Cheolhong Kim, Daejin Kim, and Intae Hwang Optimal Wireless Aerial Sensor Node Positioning for Randomly Deployed Planar Collaborative Beamforming 5122 Tan A. Ngo, Murali Tummala, and John C. McEachen The Possibility of Wireless Sensor Networks for Industrial Pipe Rack Safety Monitoring 5129 Jieun Jung and Byunghun Song Totally-Ordered, Reliable Multicast over Cognitive Radio Networks 5135 Matthew R. Tolson, Clark V. Dalton, Mark D. Silvius, Ethan S. Hennessey, Curtis C. Medve Jared J. Thompson, Kenneth M. Hopkinson, and Seif Azghandi Ubiquitous Interpersonal Communication over Ad-hoc Networks and the Internet 5144 Edoardo Biagioni Using Simulations to Study the Efficiency of Update Control Protocols 5154 Bernd Pfitzinger, Tommy Baumann, Dragan Macos, and Thomas Jestdt Vulnerability Analysis of LTE Location Services 5162 Mark Hofer, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Author Index 5167 
xlvix 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


