 Abstract                              Index Terms    I  I NTRODUCTION  iven a Landsat panchromatic image as shown in Fig 1 the image size is 14,961 columns and 14,821 rows. The bit depth is 16 bits or 2 bytes. The file size is 443.6 megabytes. The downlink capacity currently has approximately a 440 Mbps throug hput from satellite to ground station using X-band with lossless compression [6   T h i s  results in approximately a 30 second time period to transfer the entire Landsat image. The disk size of the image is calculated as 14,961 x 14821 pixels * 16 bits/pixel* \(1byte/8 bits 443,593,728 bytes 1 The data rate in bytes is calculated as 440 Mbps =440*2 20 bits/sec *\(1 byte/8bits 57,671,680 bytes/sec 2  The time to transfer this image with the given data rate is 443,593,728 bytes\ / \(57,671,680 bytes/sec 7.7 seconds 3 This is the time required for just one of the Landsat 8 bands The panchromatic band is 4/15 of the total data for all 11 bands plus the quality assessment band. Therefore, the total transfer rate for all bands per image is: 7.7 seconds * 15/4 28.9 seconds. If the lossless compression ratio is 90%, then for example the time will be reduced similarly for downlink Since Landsat has the capability to collect continuously, the future ability to point and collect data for only the bands required could be more efficient. Many missions require only three bands in order to process the imagery. Our approach is to add computational intelligence to provide the analyst with a decision making capability to reduce the time to collect and process data while retaining the information needed to complete the mission analysis. This is especially important for future sensors with many bands such as the Navy Earth Map Observer with 64 bands and NASA’s EO-1 hyperspectral system. The bandwidth issue becomes important as the sensor resolution increases with future capabilities. Video is another data type which may benefit from a smart decision making capability to handle more bandwidth   Fig. 1.  Landsat8 Image A Cognitive Group Hierarchy Game Theoretic Framework for Bandwidth Management Mark Rahmes, Jay Hackett, Kevin Fox, Rick Pemble, George Lemieux, Howard Gans  Harris Corporation Government Communications Systems Melbourne, Florida 32904 G  978-1-4799-3564-2/14/$31.00 ©2014 IEEE 2014 IEEE International Inter-Disciplinary Conference on Cognitive Methods in Situation Awareness and Decision Support \(CogSIMA  250 


II  H IERARCHICAL G AME T HEORY  Hierarchical game theory can be used to solve for the best strategy for decision making in complex problem solving Hierarchical game theory can determine cooperating capacity between groups and detect the best united strategy. It proves that the model can provide an effective way for analyzing the bandwidth. This can provide a powerful method of resource allocation and asset planning in order to maximize a player’s response g u r e 2 s h o w s th e h i erarc h ical g a m e s t r u ct u r e for our example. All of these hierarchies are part of the overall player’s capability to compete with other players. The four hierarchies are: bands, sensors, missions, and organizations  Fig. 2.  Hierarchical Game Structure  We let the objective function be F = \(F 1 F 2 here F 1  could be the blue team and F 2 could be the red team. We let x 1  be the decision maker’s choice for blue and x 2 for red. We let h 11 to h 1m be the lower hierarchical decision maker’s response for blue. The objective function for blue’s lower decision makers is f ij We let S 1 be the feasible sets for variable x 1 S 1  depends on x 1 and h 11 to h mj The lower decision maker can modify the upper decision maker's mind according to the actual status  Our example has four organizations, five sensors, seven missions, and eleven bands. We are seeking the best mission use of the sensor based on available assets and bands for optimal organizational use. Figure 3 shows the elements of each hierarchy for our example This framework solves for controlling ability in groups and the hierarchical trait in command and control. Thus, to enhance independent decision making in lower decision makers and make decision making between the upper and the lower decision makers not only have clear hierarchies, but also interact and optimize each other. Sequentially, perfect effects can be obtained with a hierarchy model  The bands determine and greatly contribute to the effectiveness of the Landsat mission. The mission determines which bands to use. The organizations determine the missions The missions are to be carried out by the organizations. The sensors are used to carry out the missions. The missions determine which sensors to use based on a number of factors such as location, capability and availability. Figure 4 shows the hierarchical structure of our example  Fig. 3.  Hierarchies and Elements  The goal is to maximize the decision function. The overall performance of the decision is based on several levels of hierarchical decisions. Our example starts with the decision to task assets based on mission and the responsible organization For Landsat, there is a wealth of data which exists and is important for change detection. Cooperation between organizations is modeled using multi-player Prisoner’s Dilemma in our solution. The choice of Landsat sensor to use is based on availability. The mission priority is based on real world events. The bands to use are based on the mission. Each level of hierarchy has an impact on the overall ability for blue to compete on a global basis  Fig. 4.  Hierarchical Structure III  S ELECTING B AND C OMBINATION  Individual bands can be used to identify different features on the ground and how these bands can be combined to create useful products. Using this information we can select specific bands from a multispectral satellite image to create color pictures that are specifically tailored to facilitate the identification of the features of interest With a digital camera the detector inside the camera is recording three different wavelengths \(or colors\f light – the red, green, and blue wavelengths and this information is combined to produce a picture that looks just like a photograph. With a multispectral sensor, such as those aboard the Landsat satellites, information from different wavelengths  2014 IEEE International Inter-Disciplinary Conference on Cognitive Methods in Situation Awareness and Decision Support \(CogSIMA  251 


of light is collected as in a digital camera but there are two major differences. The first is that instead of limiting itself to the visible wavelengths \(what we can see with the human eye red, green, and blue\uch broader range of wavelengths are detected. Information is also collected in the infrared and sometimes even the thermal wavelengths [7 The second major difference is that instead of automatically combining the information from the different wavelengths to form a picture, the information for each specific wavelength range is stored as a separate image. This image is commonly called a band. When viewed, this single band image is similar to a black and white digital photograph. It is up to the image analysts to combine the images from the different wavelengths to create a color image. We can create color images on a computer screen by using red, green, and blue light to illuminate bands 5, 4, and 3 respectively. We can determine which of the bands should be used to make color image and which of the primary light colors should be used to illuminate each band. Determining which of the primary colors should be used to represent a particular band is largely a matter of how the image looks. Another way to represent those same bands is to change the primary light colors that are used to illuminate each band. Since infrared film was popular for monitoring vegetation before advent of digital remote sensing devices there is a tendency to continue simulating this effect [7  Figure 5 shows several commonly used band combinations with a brief explanation on why it is used [5 n g  th e  appropriate bands to use in the color image on the other hand does have a huge impact on which features can be seen in a particular image. The list below explains some of the features of the seven Landsat Thematic Mapper bands and how they are tailored for detecting different features  Band 1 \(0.45 green\Since this short wavelength of light penetrates better than the other bands it is often the band of choice for aquatic ecosystems. It is used to monitor sediment in water, mapping coral reefs, and water depth. This is also the noisiest of the Landsat bands since short wavelength blue light is scattered more than the other bands  Band 2 \(0.52 band 1 but not as extreme. The band was selected because it matches the wavelength for the green we see for vegetation  Band 3 \(0.63 nearly all red light \(it is sometimes called the chlorophyll absorption band\his band can be useful for distinguishing vegetation and soil and in monitoring vegetation health  Band 4 \(0.76 nearly all light at this wavelength water bodies appear very dark. This contrasts with bright reflectance for soil and vegetation. It is a good for defining the water/ land interface  Band 5 \(1.55 infrared\ This band is very sensitive to moisture and is therefore used to monitor vegetation and soil moisture  Band 6 \(10.40 thermal band, used to measure surface temperature. This is primarily used for geological applications and sometimes used to measure plant heat stress. This is also used to differentiate clouds from bright soils since clouds tend to be very cold  Band 7 \(2.08 infrared\ This band is also used for vegetation moisture One of the best ways to better understand which features one can see using different band combinations is to experiment to see what works for you    Fig. 5.  Band Combinations [5 2014 IEEE International Inter-Disciplinary Conference on Cognitive Methods in Situation Awareness and Decision Support \(CogSIMA  252 


IV  S ENSOR P RIORITY C OST F UNCTION  Our paper looks at an example of using linear program game theory to solve for a strategy given a reward matrix for possible actions based upon selected criteria. In many situations, the opponents know the strategy that they are following. We assume that the players know what actions are available. A “maximin equilibrium" is often the strategy and is called the Nash theory application of zero or constant sum strategy game W e als o c o n s ider a con s tan t s u m  g a m e  in which for both player’s strategies, the two player’s reward add up to a constant value. This means, while both players are in conflict, that there is more to gain than simply having one player’s reward equaling the other player’s loss. In our example, the red player for this level of hierarchy can be thought of as the consequences of natural disasters For example, if a reward matrix exists, then the equilibrium point is the one where the reward is the smallest value in its row and the largest number in its column. This equilibrium point is also called a "saddle point" since it is like the center point in a horse’s saddle. This equilibrium is also known as the Nash Equilibrium [11  T h e sad d l e p o in t is th e l o cal minimum in one direction \(row\d a local maximum in another direction \(column\ [1 u ch as    max all rows row min\ = min all columns column max 4  This left half of Equation \(4\resents the basic applied theory to decision making of our model under uncertainty. Our model has manpower and an equipment output. For a possible action, one consideration is to choose the “best” worst outcom h e m a x i m i n cri t e ri on su gg est s t h at t h e decision maker should choose the alternative which maximizes the minimum payoff he can get. This pessimistic approach implies that the decision maker should expect the worst to happen. The maximin criterion is concerned with making the worst possible outcome as pleasant as possible The right half of Equation \(4\ represents minimax regret criterion which uses the concept of opportunity cost to arrive at a decision. The regret of an outcome is the difference between the value of that outcome and the maximum value of all the possible outcomes. For any action and state, there is opportunity of loss or regret. The decision maker should choose the alternative that minimizes the maximum regret he could suffer. Although these decision making criteria discussed may seem reasonable, many decisions are made without using any analysis  Many games do not have saddle points. It is acceptable to model a player’s choice of strategies with probabilities. A game with a randomized \(or mixed\trategy is one in which all of a player’s choices add up to a value of one. A mixed strategy is comprised of possible actions and an associated probability. Any mixed strategy that guarantees an expected reward at least equal to the value of the game is an optimal strategy. A pure strategy is a special case if a randomized strategy exists if any of the choices equals one. In a pure strategy, a player always chooses the same O u r  example’s possible choices are based on Landsat mission for natural disasters as shown in Fig 6  Fig. 6.  Reward Matrix   Equation \(5\elow is used to determine the best strategy for the blue player. Linear programming is useful for solving game theory problems and finding optimal strategies. We can define  x 1 probability that blue player chooses Earthquake x 2 probability that blue player chooses Volcanic Eruption x 3 probability that blue player chooses Landslide x 4 probability that blue player chooses Tsunami x 5 probability that blue player chooses Desertification x 6 probability that blue player chooses Flood x 7 probability that blue player chooses Hurricane  max v 5 s.t. v -   830 x1 -  92 x2 - 1000 x3 -   0 x4 - 7500 x5 - 1000 x6 - 500 x7 <= 0 v -   0.9 x1 -  1.5 x2 -       0 x3 -   0 x4 -  19.6 x5 -  14.0 x6 -  1.5 x7  <= 0 v -    23 x1 -     3 x2 -     70 x3 - 23 x4 -   100 x5 -       4 x6 -   84 x7  <= 0 v -      0 x1 -     0 x2 -       0 x3 -   0 x4 -     17 x5 -     13 x6 -   70 x7  <= 0  x1 + x2 + x3 + x4 + x5 + x6 + x7 = 1 x1, x2, x3, x4, x5, x6, x7  >= 0  The solution for the blue player’s mixed strategy in terms of probabilities 0, 0, 0, 0, 0.96, 0, 0.04\. Based on the parameters of death, damage, and cost, the best choice for blue in our example would be to monitor desertification. This disaster has shown to be the most costly based on available statistical data in our example. This framework is flexible to allow other scenarios to be modeled for optimal decision making V  D YNAMIC F AIR D IVISION  In our example the sensor may also be considered an existing database for Landsat 1-5. This is valuable for change detection or battle damage assessment. Figure 7 shows an example structure where S is the sensor and A is the analyst For Landsat it is important to note that the data may have been already collected and is stored in a database by the responsible organization 2014 IEEE International Inter-Disciplinary Conference on Cognitive Methods in Situation Awareness and Decision Support \(CogSIMA  253 


 Fig. 7.  Sensors, Databases, and Analysts  One issue with our example is modeling asset management with limited resources for multiple sensor modality requirements. One solution is to run the Shapley [12 an d  Nash o rit h m s  f o r each s u cces s i v e tas k i n g req u es t However this alone lacks a correlation to available assets We next run a dynamic fair division \(DFD\ algorithm to ensure that each request is fair with respect to limited available assets. The motivation for fairness is used to ensure that not all sensor assets are dominated by one agent or player region of interest\. This is needed in order to not miss important events occurring around the world Walsh pos ed t h e prob l e m of  f a i r cak e c u t t i n g  w h ere agents arrive, take a piece of cake, and immediately depart The cake cutting setting deals with the allocation of a single heterogeneous divisible resource; our setting deals with multiple, heterogeneous divisible resources. This permits exploration of the concept of fair division when players arrive and depart during the process of dividing a resource. It can be used to model situations when there is a need to divide resources asynchronously T h e i n di v i s i bl e qu al i t y of t h i s  method that we are concerned with is time of asset use We have chosen to model the solution based on fair division rather than dynamic queuing where agent requirements arrive and depart with a solution allocating one sensor per agent in succession [3 e u in g i s an  o p tio n an d is p a r t o f th e s y s t e m  However, we choose to look at resource management using fair division since it has additional benefits of computational intelligence Similar to Kash w e den o te th e num b er of a g e n ts  with sensor requirements as N = {1,…, n}, and the amount of resources agent i requires as R i Our example is different in that we consider some sensors as unlimited while others are limited. The demand D ir is the fraction of resource r required by agent i. However in our example, the value for social media may be considered unlimited, so we always denote social media as having N resources available. Additionally we compute the utility function, with a Shapley value, of an agent as the fraction of its dominant resource that it can actually use A trivial solution is simply to allocate resources based on a first come – first served basis and allocate 1/n shares to each agent. A dynamic allocation mechanism is dynamic envy free DEF\ if at any step an agent i envies an agent j only if j arrived before i did and j has not been allocated any resources since i arrive Before a sensor modality is tasked, we allow the agent to be able to give the asset back if envied by another agent with a higher requirement, determined by the Shapley marginal contributions shown in Fig 8. Instead of simply allocating equal shares to all players, we recognize that certain regions of interest \(agents, players\ demand more assets at a given time due to real world crisis situations. Therefore we propose using the Shapley value as the percentage of resources to be allocated to agents. In our example, the Landsat 8 and Landsat 7 assets are limited while the Landsat 1-5 sensors are considered unlimited since an abundance of images have been collected and have been stored on disk. However, the use of the right sensor at the right time has a higher value. Our solution considers the use of some sensor may be better than none. It depends on the situation Figure 8 also shows the values for the Shapley method for calculating probabilities due to marginal contributions [12   Our implementation of treating each band combination as a player in a game uses the Shapley value as the probability of choosing a band combination based on mission parameters requirements. Our solution currently considers the average of the ten combinations   Fig. 8.  Shapley Marginal Contributions  We consider a dynamic resource allocation model where agents arrive at different times and depart similar to Walsh et al. [13 A n a g en t rep o r ts its r e q u ir e m e n t u p o n ar riv a l an d t h e demand is accomplished. The requirements do change over time. The water-filling mechanism is a dynamic adaptation of the dominant resource fairness \(DRF\ mechanism [4   Figure 9 shows our example of allocation of demands based on the modified water filling algorithm. The agent can demand sensors of all modalities based on priority using Shapley value marginal contributions. The Von Neumann-Morgenstern concept of a utility function can be used as an aid to decision making under uncertainty. A decision maker’s utility function contains information about their attitude toward risk Decisions may be risk-averse, risk-neutral, or risk-seeking 14 Ou r u tilit y  f u n c tio n is as f o llo w s   r \(u i A i max{D ir S ir  6 where S is the Shapley value marginal contributions. For each modality, the agent is allocated assets for either the maximum of demand or Shapley value. Equation \(6\enerates a demand vector for each agent and for each modality   2014 IEEE International Inter-Disciplinary Conference on Cognitive Methods in Situation Awareness and Decision Support \(CogSIMA  254 


 Fig. 9.  Dynamic Fair Division of Resources  Using the Shapley values, for example, the demand vector for the blue \(Desertification\ mission is 0.34. Since blue also has the largest Shapley value, blue gets first priority tasking allocations. The next player’s turn is determined by the Shapley value and so forth. In our example, Flood mission receives sensor assets since it has the next highest value of 0.21. The cycle continues as missions are complete and assets are freed. The procedure allows for envy freeness. An agent can demand a sensor from another agent as long as it is not allocated or tasked yet Since the Hurricane mission has a higher Nash value for an optical sensor than Flood \(0.04\t takes priority in order to allow for a feedback loop for real world events. Therefore Flood relinquishes its priority for the optical sensor although it had a higher overall average Shapley value. Figure 9 shows the updated water fill queuing diagram. The incorporation of joint Shapley values with Nash values comes into play when the agent requests multiple sensor modalities as requirements When this occurs and there is a possible envy situation, the joint Shapley and Nash values are needed VI  N-P ERSON P RISONER  S D ILEMMA G AME  Cooperation is less likely to emerge in a large group than a small group [16  T h e va l u e o f o n e se ve nt h d ue t o ha vi ng  seven missions in our example\hown in Fig 9 for Landsat 15 are only true if all of the resources on disk are shared. Since our example has seven missions, each mission can ideally have access to all data provided that the images needed to accomplish the mission are available in an existing database Otherwise the information may not be available and needs to be collected. This may result in some other important area of interest not being collected The iterated Prisoner’s Dilemma \(PD\ame has been used extensively in the study of cooperative behaviors in social and biological systems. The N player PD game is realistic for modeling the cooperation strategies Each player has two choices between group cooperation or non-sharing defection. Cooperation may also be thought of as free trade versus protectionism It is important to recognize inconsistencies between individual rationality and group rationality. Game theory explains such inconsistencies clearly and simply, which is why it is widely used in various fields of social sciences. The “prisoner’s dilemma” model represents inconsistencies simply. Hierarchy or multi-level games interact with each other so that each game affects a player at higher or lower levels. Each level of interaction is a strategic game [10 A t each le v e l o n e o p tio n is to ru n th e N a sh  equilibria to determine optimal strategy However, in the real world, individual rational actions are not always taken. In our example, responsible organizations are given incentives to cooperate so that their action can take a better action in the international game so that the blue player can best comp  Unfortunately, it has been shown both theoretically and in the real world that certain strategies that work well for individuals in the PD model fail in large groups. The nonsharing option is dominant for each player, even though it is preferable to choose to cooperate [1 H i s i m port a n t  because it predicts the effect of group size which is not predicted by the Nash equilibrium Results of an open competition are well explained  by CH In many games it boils down to predicting how deeply  other agents in the game will be reasoning. An agent  that does not reason enough risks being exploited by its  opponents, while an agent that reasons too much may  not be able to interact productively with its opponents  In our example, it is more beneficial for all responsible organizations associated with Landsat to share data. We can model the situation as a measure of cooperation \(MOC   a = [1 + [N c  2n 3 ax\(1 + [N c  2n 3  7   In this equation, N c is the number of cooperative decisions made out of N possible decisions. The total number of players is n. This equation generates reward values. In our example we can convert this to a percentage of cooperation and relate it to the amount of Landsat data that can be used for change detection purposes, for example. A lower cooperation level will result in the Landsat 8 sensor needing more tasking or simply failure to accomplish the mission since a historic database is necessary for many applications If one of the player’s representing a responsible organization receives cooperation from another responsible organization, this results in a higher overall value for the blue player and allows for better international competitiveness This level of cooperation in the hierarchy of responsible organizations is very important and can be modeled using equation \(7\his value affects the blue player’s effectiveness as well as lower level hierarchies such as repeating missions and using assets at the expense of other tasking. Yao et al showed that for a four player prisoner’s dilemma with a history of two decisions, a 95 percent cooperation level occurs 80 percent of the time Over a long period of time with many players, each with different strategies, greedy strategies tend to do very poorly in the long run while more cooperating strategies do better, as  2014 IEEE International Inter-Disciplinary Conference on Cognitive Methods in Situation Awareness and Decision Support \(CogSIMA  255 


judged purely by self-interest. When the opponent defects, on the next decision, the player sometimes cooperates anyway The successful strategy must not be a blind optimist. It must sometimes retaliate. Though players will retaliate, they will once again fall back to cooperating if the opponent does not continue to defect. This stops long runs of revenge and counter-revenge. The last quality is being non-envious, that is not striving to score more than opponent  We can model our CH example using a powerful tool called analytic hierarchy process \(AHP\HP can be used to make decisions in situations involving multiple objectives. The AHP method uses a weight with each attribute. A higher weight indicates a more important objectiv A n e x tens ion o f t h e Von Neumann-Morgenstern utility can be used to make decision under uncertainty where more than one attribute affects blue’s preference and attitude toward risk. In order for blue to check on the consistency of the CH model, we show our example with a consistency check. We present an example using multiattribute utility function in order to show the repeatability of hierarchy level function to create consistent products most useful for the blue player where each attribute is not mutually independent but rather depends on the other We compute the consistency index \(CI\ follows  CI      n n1  8   where A T is a matrix based on the blue player’s levels of hierarchy as discussed in this paper. The values in the A matrix and the weights in the w vector are based on bands missions, assets, and organizations using Shapley, Nash, DFD and the MOC respectively. CI can be used to monitor which three band combinations are used for a given mission such that the consistency of mapping products are monitored For a perfectly consistent decision maker, CI will be equal to zero. If CI is sufficiently small, the decision maker’s comparisons are probably consistent enough to give useful estimates of the weights. In our example, if the value of CI is too large, then the blue player can make some adjustments amongst the responsible organizations in order to improve competitiveness on an international level. The goal of the blue player is to manage bandwidth at the lowest level, create the most consistent products using the most efficient missions while ensuring the lower level responsible organizations are cooperating effectively VII  C ONCLUSION  Our approach is to add computational intelligence to provide the analyst with a decision making capability to reduce time to collect and process data while retaining the information needed to complete the mission analysis Since asset tasking has dynamic, discrete, strong opposition and hierarchical traits, decision making becomes more and more complex. It is difficult to analyze and resolve. In the presence of game theory and hierarchical theory, and on the basis of dynamic state attrition-models, our strategy can solve this kind of problem favorably We discussed a method for modeling asset management with limited resources for multiple sensor modality requirements. One solution is to run the Shapley and Nash algorithms for each successive tasking request and then run a dynamic fair division algorithm to ensure that each request is fair with respect to limited available assets. The motivation for fairness is used to ensure that not all sensor assets are dominated by one agent or player \(region of interest\his is needed in order to avoid missing sensing of important events that are occurring around the world. We realize that the solution presented is only a guide and is not intended to replace the human brain in decision making. We offer a user assisted means of prioritization to make agent and resources more effective We used the NPD to model group behavior and cooperation. We provided a real world application to present a framework for bandwidth management of remotely sensed data. This may be useful for generating semi-autonomous decision making tools to the analyst in order to increase the effectiveness of limited resources R EFERENCES  1  A x el r o d, R. a n d H a m i l t o n  W  D T h e e v o l utio n o f co o p e r at io n. S c ie n c e  221, 1390-1396, 1981 2  Cam e r e r  Co l i n F T e ckH ua H o a n d J u i n K uan C h o n g   A Co g n it iv e   Hierarchy Theory of One-shot Games." \(2002 3  D e m e r s  A  K e s h av S S h e n ke r  S   A naly s i s and s i m u l a tio n o f a f a ir  queueing algorithm”. In Proc. Of  SIGCOMM pages 1–12, 1989 4  G h o d s i A Z a har i a  M H i ndm a n  B., K o nw ins k i  A S h e nke r  S    Stoica. A., “Dominant resource fairness: Fair allocation of multiple resource types”. In Proc. of 8th NSDI pp. 24–37, 2011 5 ht tp  av i r i s  g l f ce n ub a.ar C ur s o _S R bi bl io _s r  ba n d co m b i n a tio ns   h t m l  6  ht tps    d i r e cto r y  e o po r t al o rg w e b e o p o r tal  s a te l l ite m is s i o n s  l  l a n d s a t8ldcm 7 ht tp  n il e r ak h atf i e l dg r o up c o m F r e nch/N R A K EO  8 _S e l e c ting _  t h e _  appropriate_band_combination_AMNH.pdf 8  K a s h 1 P r o c acc ia A S h a h N   N o ag e n t l e f t be h i n d  D y nam i c f a ir  division of multiple resources”. In Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems, 2013 9  L i  Z h ang  Z h a n g A n Z h ang Y o ng f a ng a n d S h i Z h if u S t u dy o n g r o u p air to ground attack-defends hierarchical dynamic decision-making Journal of Systems Engineering and Electronics 18, no. 3 \(2007\: 540544 10  Ma ts um o t o  M its ut a k a F o r m u l a tio n a n d a p pl i c at io ns o f h i e r ar chy  games International Game Theory Review 3, no. 02n03 \(2001\: 189201 11   N a s h J o hn  N o n C o o pe r a t i v e  G a m e s  T h e  A n nal s o f Mat h e m at ics  54\(2\:286-295, 1951 1 Sh a p le y   L  S   A  Va lu e fo r n p e rson G a me s i n C on t r i b u t i o n s t o th e  Theory of Games, II,’’ H. Kuhn and A. W. Tucker, eds., Princeton Princeton University Press, 1953 13  W a l s h. T  O nl ine cake cut t i n g  I n  Proc. of 3rd ADT pages 292–305 2011 14  W a y n e  W i ns to n  O p e r at io ns  Re s e ar ch A p pl ic at io ns an d A l g o r i thm s  4t h   Edition, 2003 15  W u nde r  Mi c h ae l  Mic h ae l  L   L i ttm a n  Mi ch ae l  K a is e r s  and J o h n  Robert Yaros. "A Cognitive Hierarchy Model Applied to the Lemonade Game." In Interactive Decision Theory and Game Theory 2010 16  Y a o  X i n an d P a ul J  D a r w e n  A n e x pe r i m e nt al s t udy o f N pe r s o n  iterated prisoner's dilemma games." In Progress in Evolutionary Computation pp. 90-108. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1995  2014 IEEE International Inter-Disciplinary Conference on Cognitive Methods in Situation Awareness and Decision Support \(CogSIMA  256 


Richard Stelling is a Research Technician at the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter Camera Science Operations Center He received his B.S degree in Aerospace Engineering from Arizona State University and is currently attending graduate school there At LROC he has worked on in-orbit 003ight calibration and lunar terrain morphology Mark Robinson is a professor at the School of Earth and Space Exploration in Arizona State University and is the principal investigator for the NASA LROC project His research interests are currently focused on the origin and evolution of planetary crusts including volcanism tectonism and regolith development Investigations are approached using a variety of remote sensing techniques multispectral imaging spectroscopy stereo analysis photoclinometry and geomorphology utilizing datasets from Apollo Lunar Orbiter Clementine,LRO Galileo NEAR Lunar Prospector Mariner 10 and MESSENGER 8 


1 C. He n ley   H y p er V Microk e rn elized o r Mo n o lit h ic  in ed: Microsoft Technet, 2011 2 Y. Oy a m a T  G i an Y. Chu b ach i, T  Sh in ag aw a, an d K  Kato, "Detecting malware signatures in a thin hypervisor," in Trento, Italy, 2008, pp. 1807-1814 3 F A r m a n d an d M G ien A P ractic al L o o k at Micro Kernels and Virtual Machine Monitors," in Las Vegas, NV, 2009, pp. 1 - 7 4 J. McDe r m o t t, B. Mo n tro se  M. L i J. Kirb y  an d M Kang, "Separation virtual machine monitors," in New Orleans, LA, 2012, pp. 419428 5 P. Ka rg er an d A  He rb ert A n  A u g m en ted Cap a b ility  Architecture to Support Lattice Security and Traceability of Access," in  Oakland, CA, 1984, pp. 2-12 6 T  Sh in ag aw a, E. Hid ek i, K. T a n i m o to S. Ha se g a w a K  Kourai, Y. Oyama, E. Kawai, K. Kono, S. Chiba, Y. Shinjo and K. Kato, "BitVisor: a thin hypervisor for enforcing i/o device security," in London, UK, 2009 7 R. Sailer, E. V a ld ez, T  Ja eg er, R. Perez, L. van Doorn, J Griffin, and S. Berger, "sHype: Secure hypervisor approach to trusted virtualized systems," J. Watson Research Center2005 8 D. o  De f e n s e   D ep artme n t o f De f e n s e  T r u sted  Computer System Evaluation Criteria," Department of Defense1985 9 J. Rus h b y  De sig n an d V e rif ica tio n o f Secu re Sy ste m s   in  Pacific Grove, CA, 1981, pp. 12 21 10  P  Co lp M. Na n a v a ti, J. Zhu  W   A iello G  Cok e r T   Deegan, P. Loscocco, and A. Warfield, "Breaking up is hard to do: Security and functionality in a commodity Hypervisor," in Cascais, Portugal, 2011, pp. 189-202 11 NIST  Na tio n a l Vuln erab il ities Da tabase   2013 12 D P e rez-Botero, J. Szef er and R. Lee, "Characterizing hypervisor vulnerabilities in cloud computing servers," in Hangzhou, CN, 2013, pp. 3-10 13  Microsof t  S ecu rity Bulletin s  2010 14 NIST  Na tio n a l Vuln erab il ities Da tabase   2013 15  L  McDa n iels an d K. Na n ce I d e n t ify i n g  W e ak n e ss es  in VM/Hypervisor Interfaces," in Wailea, HI, 2013 pp. 5089 - 5095 16  M. Bo lte, M. Siev ers G. Birkenheuer, O. Niehorster and A. Brinkmann, "Non-intrusive virtualization management using libvirt," in Leuven, BE, 2010, pp. 574-579 17 C  L i A  R a g huna t h a n a n d N  J h a   S e c u r e Vi r t ua l  Machine Execution under an Untrusted Management OS," in Miami, FL, 2010, pp. 172 - 179 18  P  Ka rg er an d D. Saff o rd   I/O f o r V irtu a l Mach in e  Monitors: Security and Performance Issues vol. 6, pp. 16 - 23, 2008 19 G  Cok e r X e n Secu ri ty Mo d u els X SM  in  San Jose, CA, 2006 
one is more secure than the other. Regardless of the size of the footprint or th e type of architecture, wellwritten and tested kernel code will provide better security. At best, it could be said that they meet different, competing objectives. Microkernel designs have minimal kernels and offer highly customizable management planes. They allow for tailored solutions and simplify the development process Monolithic architectures are preconfigured with necessary drivers and software in the trusted zone They require less domain knowledge to set up and provide fewer options for tampering This analysis will pr ove valuable to both IT professionals and softwa re engineers. Enterprise architects and information security professionals are often forced to make acquisition decisions will less than complete information. This research identified a number of factors to consider before implementing new technologies. However, the present study should not be considered comprehensive. Other design factors should be elicited in future research. This study should also be of interest to software engineers. Often security is considered late in the software development cycle. By analyzing security implications at the architectural level, this research attempts to incorporate security concerns earlier in the design process. Future studies should focus on approaches to compensating for security weaknesses in each type of architecture 
Cloud Computing Proceedings of the 27th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing 6th IEEE Consumer Communications and Networking Conference CCNC Proceedings of the 28th Annual Computer Security Applications Conference 1984 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy Proceedings of the 2009 ACM SIGPLAN/SIGOPS international conference on Virtual execution environments 8th ACM Symposium on Operating System Principles 23rd ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles http://nvd.nist.gov  Proceedings of the 2013 international workshop on Security in cloud computing http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/security/bulletin/MS10010#section1  http://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-20131920  46th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS Proceedings of the Conference on Design, Automation and Test in Europe DATE '10 2010 IEEE 3rd International Conference on Cloud Computing \(CLOUD IEEE Security Privacy Xen Summitt 
 
6 References 
 
5016 


IEEE Security Privacy IEEE Security & Privacy 27th IFIP TC 11 Information Security and Privacy Conference, SEC 2012 I/O processing in a virtualized platform: a simulation-driven approach VEE '07 
20 K. Na n ce, M. Bis h o p  an d B. Ha y    V irtu a l Mach in e Introspection: Observation or Interference vol. 6, pp. 32-27, 2008 21 Q. L i u  C  W e n g M. L i an d Y. L u o   A n In V M  Measuring Framework for In creasing Virtual Machine Security in Clouds vol. 8, pp 56-62, 2010 22 F  G a d a leta, N. Nik if o ra k is, J. Mu h lb e r, an d W  Joo se n  HyperForce: Hypervisor-enforced execution of securitycritical code," in Heraklion, Crete, Gr, 2012 pp. 126-137 23  V  Chad h a R Figu eu red o R  Illikk a l, R. Iy er, J. Mo se s and D. Newell, "I/O processing in a virtualized platform: a simulation-driven approach," in  San Jose, CA, 2007, pp. 116-125 
 
5017 


    11   Figure 21 Tail functions for the spacecraft power consumption \(due to data availability only ADCS components and avionics board are considered in this plot\. The plot shows results for data statistic, two expert statistics \(proportional and bisection weights\ and two Bayesian statistics. The vertical dotted and dashed lines indicate t he estimates at PDR and CDR. It can be noticed that in this case the statistics \(especially Bayesian\ fail in recognizing the underestimation at PDR  Differently from the other cases the risk analysis for the total power consumption shows some problems Specifically the statistics do not seem to identify the underestimation of the initial PDR estimate  The cause of this issue depends mostly on the estimates of the power consumption for the ADCS components, since the estimates of the power consumption for the avionics board seem to be more accurate Future work will focus on improving estimates for the ADCS components maybe developing a specific expert elicitation interview with control experts only  The last results of this paper were computed performing the analysis of variance The analysis considers how the variance of each factor component or subsystem affects the total variance The objective of this analysis is to identify the main drivers for mass and power fluctuations To compute the analysis [4   th e h y p o t h esi s  o f  i n d ep en d en c e between the distributions of the single components is assumed Hence the variance of fluctuations for mass and power is the sum of the single variances   4  5  The variance proportions coefficients are defined as the ratio of the variance of each component to the total variance They are computed as  6  7  The coefficients for mass fluctuations are shown in Figure 22  The coefficients for power fluctuations are shown in Figure 23     Figure 22 Analysis of variance for the spacecraft mass estimates. According to all the statistics, the components of the control system together with the avionics board seem to be the components that show the biggest variance in their estimation  


    12   Figure 23 Analysis of variance for the spacecraft power consumption estimates. The statistics offer different results on which component seems to be the principle driver for the variance of the power consumption estimate  Analysis of variance shows that all the statistics identify ADCS and avionics board components as the major drivers for the variance in the estimation of the total mass Regarding the power consumption, the analysis of variance presents conflicting results according to experts and Bayesian statistics the ADCS subsystem is the main driver of the variance, while according to data statistic the avionics board is the main driver This difference can also be correlated with the issues observed in the total powe r consumption probability density function Figure 20 and 21 Future work will focus on a more detailed analysis of the control system for the spacecraft A final comment is related to the weighting of the distributions In this analysis two weighting schemes have been used the proportional scheme and the bisection scheme While in previous works focused on communication system design only  1   5    3    4   the bisection rule achieved substantially better results in the case of this paper the two methods provide very similar outcomes and they both give reasonable estimates However since this is the first case in which the methodology has been applied by the authors to the entire spacecraft design, it is too early to claim that in all the cases the two schemes will perform in the same way More test cases need to be analyzed and additional interviews with experts need to be performed  Conclusions and suggestions for future work are presented in the next section  4  C ONCLUSIONS  This paper presents the first attempt to extend the probabilistic approach to design risk to the entire spacecraft design This approach has been developed initially by the authors primarily for the design of the communication subsystem. In this paper, the authors extend the approach to the different subsystems and focus their effort on small spacecraft which are becoming increasingly more developed in academia space agencies and industries The methodology is extended to the entire spacecraft the database now includes data on several spacecraft components and the expert elicitation interview includes questions on the different subsystems. A university satellite mission \(CASTOR\ developed at MIT is used as a test case Results show that the methodology is effective in analyzing each component and in identifying whether the initial estimate of mass and power consumption made at PDR was an overestimation or an underestimation Specifically the tail functions provide useful insights which can be applied by the engineers while designing the spacecraft. The system results are obtained by convolution of the results obtained for the single components and they show that the model is able to clearly identify underestimation for the spacecraft mass while it does not perform as well for the power consumption. Similar results are obtained in the analysis of variance proportions Future work will be dedicated to analyzing the issue on the power consumption estimate as well as in developing specific statistic al  approaches to include newly developed payloads for which no previous data are available or for which expertise in the field is somehow limited Finally future work will also focus on extending the model to the design of larger spacecraft than small satellites and to the design of satellite constellations  5 ACKNOWLEDGMENT  Part of this work was performed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Part of this work was carried out at the Space System Laboratory Massachusetts Institute of Technology 6 APPENDIX  A breakdown of mass and power consumption data for each of the components at PDR and CDR is shown in the following table Table 2: Values of mass and power consumption at PDR and CDR for each of the components analyzed Component  Mass PDR Kg  Mass CDR Kg  Power PDR W  Power CDR W  Solar Panel  3.34  5.066  0  0  


    13  Battery  3.2  2.64  70  50  Avionics Board  0.35  0.21  4  1.8  Satellite Structure  4.82  15.09  0  0  Magnetometer  0.01  0.01  0.03  0.03  Sun Sensor  0.03  0.03  0.08  0.075  GPS receiver  0.02  0.32  0.5  0.8  IMU  0.02  0.16  0.8  0..285  Reaction Wheels Assembly  0.12  0.21  1.2  7   R EFERENCES    1   A Babuscia Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication System Design Ph.D Thesis Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2012  2   A Babuscia and K M Cheung Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication System Design IEEE Systems Journal vol. PP, no. 99, pp. 1 12, 2012  3   A Babuscia and K M Cheung Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication Systems Design A Prelimi nary Look The Interplanetary Network Progress Report Vols. 42 188, pp. 1 33, 2012  4   A Babuscia K M Cheung and D W Miller Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication System Design: Development of Optimization Frameworks," in IEEE Aerospac e Conference Big Sky, Montana, 2013  5   A Babuscia and K M Cheung An approach to perform expert elicitation for engineering design risk analysis methodology and experimental results Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series A Oct  2013   6   V Cortellessa Model Based Performance Risk Analysis IEEE 2005  7   L Meshkat A Holistic Approach for Risk Management During Design IEEE 2006  8   F. Barrientos, I. Tumer and D. Ullman, "Design Teams Complex Systems and Uncertain ties IEEE 2005  9   W L Oberkampf J C Helto C A Joslyn S F Wojkiewicz and S Ferson Challenge problems uncertainty in system response given uncertain parameters," Vols. 85\(11 19\, 2004  10   Y Asnayr V Bryl and P Giorgini Using risks analysis to evaluate alternatives IEEE 2006  11   M Fuchs and A Neumaier Autonomous Robust Design Optimization with potential clouds Reliability and Safety 2009  12   M Fuchs A Neumaier and D Girimonte Uncertainty modeling in autonomous robust spacecraft system design in Proceedings in Applied Mathematics and Mechanics 2007  13   M. Fuchs and A. Neumaier, "Potential based clouds in robust design optimization  Issue on Imprecision of Statistics and Applied Mathematics 2008  14   N O Siu and D L Kelly Bayesian parameter estimation in probabilistic risk assessment Reliability Engineering and System Safety vol 62 pp 89 116 1998  15   A. Babus cia, M. M. McCormack, M. Munoz, S. Parra and D W Miller MIT CASTOR Satellite development  implementation and testing of the communication system Acta Astronautica vol 81 pp. 111 121, 2012     


    14  B IOGRAPHY  Alessandra Babuscia received her  B.S and M.S  degrees from the Politecnico di Milano Milan Italy  in 2005  and 2007 respectively and her  Ph.D from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology  MIT Cambridge in 2012  She has been  a Post Doctoral Associate with  the Space System Laboratory MIT She has developed  communication systems for different university  missions  CommCube 1, CommCube 2, TSat, CASTOR, ExoPlanet TerSat   TALARIS She is currently Telecommunication E ngineer in the  Communication  Architecture Research Group NASA Jet Propulsion  Laboratory in  Pasadena CA Her current research interests include communication  architecture design st atistical risk estimation expert elicitation inflatable antennas commun ication system design for small satellites and CubeSats multi disciplinary design  optimization mission scheduling and planning  Dr Babuscia received the Amelia Earhart Fellowship in 2010 and 2011  became a Gordon Engineering Leadership Fellow in 2010 an d 2011 and  received the Teaching Assistant Award from the MIT Aeronautics and  Astronautics Department in 2010, and the Top Graduate Award in the B.S  Program in 2005 and in the M.S Program in 2007 from the Politecnico di  Milano   K ar Ming Cheung  received his  B.S.E.E degree  f rom the University of Michigan Ann Arbor in  1984 and his  M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the  California Institute of Technology Pasadena in 1985  and 1987, respectively  He is currently a Principal Engineer and a Technical  Gr oup Supervisor with the Communication Architectures  and Research Section 332 Jet Propulsion  Laboratory JPL Pasadena His group supports  design and specification of future deep space  and near Earth communication systems and architectures  He has autho red or co authored over 30 journal and conference papers  in the areas of error correction coding data compression image processing  and telecom system operations He has been with JPL since 1987 where  he has been engaged in research development produc tion operation, and  management of advanced channel coding source coding synchronization  image restoration and communication analysis schemes  Dr Cheung has    Scheme   


    15                                                           


 16  56   Increase Cost Estimate Accuracy in Government  AIAA SPACE 2013 Conference and Exposition  0 vols American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 2013 57  J aso n  Ha y   J o h n  D  R ee v e s   E lain e Gr e s h a m   J u l ie Williams Predic  AIAA SPACE 2013 Conference and Exposition  0 vols American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 2013  B IOGRAPHIES   Sreeja Nag is a PhD candidate in Space Systems Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and  a part-time research fellow at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center  She has a dual SM Candidate in Aeronautics  Astronautics Engineering along with Technology  Policy at MIT. She has summer research experience with NASA JPL in 2008, the European Space Agency \(ESTEC in 2010 and led the SPHERES Zero Robotics Program in 2011. Email sreeja_n@mit.edu                Jacqueline Le Moigne is the Assistant Chief for Technology in the Software Engineering Division at NASA Goddard where she is currently leading a study on Distributed Spacecraft Missions She has  performed extensive work in developing new technologies for remote sensing data analysis e.g image registration high-performance and onboard processing She has published over 100 publications and recently co  Jacqueline.LeMoigne@nasa.gov   Olivier de Weck is a Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology He is also the Executive Director of MIT Production in the Innovation Economy PIE Study and the CoDirector Center for Complex Engineering Systems at KACST and MIT  Email deweck@mit.edu   

















Mohammed Taj, Dwight Day, Ar lie Stonestreet, Tim Sobering Paper Number: 2227; Presentation Number: 8.0201 Finding the Gaps in Space GNC Hardware Adam Greenbaum, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2288; Presentation Number: 8.0202 Technology for a Robotic Asteroid Redirect Mission and Its Extensibility to Future Human Missions John Brophy Paper Number: 2451; Presentation Number: 8.0203 Advanced Launch Vehicle Systems and Technologies NASA's Space Launch System: An Enabling Capability for Discovery Stephen Creech Paper Number: 2014; Presentation Number: 8.0301 A Dual Thrust Axis Lander for Mars Exploration David Masten Paper Number: 2384; Presentation Number: 8.0302 Innovation at ULA: It Really Is Rocket Science Gregory Schiller Paper Number: 2407; Presentation Number: 8.0303 Launch Vehicle Mission Capability Enhancemen t through Global Positioning System Metric Tracking Timothy Gray Paper Number: 2556; Presentation Number: 8.0304 Lateral Autopilot Design Using H\211\366? for Reusable Launch Vehicles Sheelu Jose Paper Number: 2435; Presentation Number: 8.0305 Adaptation of the Morris Method to MultiDimensional Factors for Air-Launch-to-Orbit Separation Henri Sohier, Jean Loup Farges, Lahanier Helene Piet Paper Number: 2566; Presentation Number: 8.0306 Hosted Payloads Concept for an ASRG Hosted Payload Mission Erich Schulze Paper Number: 2462; Presentation Number: 8.0401 Exploiting Hosted Payload Opportunities Surrey's Lessons Learned from OTB and Other Missions Anita Bernie, John Paff ett, Marissa Brummitt Paper Number: 2231; Presentation Number: 8.0402 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 22 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Human Factors & Performanc e Real Time VR Environment for MAJIC A ttitude Control System Development and Implementation Jared Rize, Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman Paper Number: 2090; Presentation Number: 8.0501 Musculoskeletal Human-Spacesuit Interaction Model Ana Diaz, Dava Newman Paper Number: 2156; Presentation Number: 8.0502 Level of Automation and Failure Frequency Ef fects on Simulated Lunar Lander Performance Jessica Marquez, Margarita Ramirez Paper Number: 2285; Presentation Number: 8.0503 Spacecraft Human-Rating: Historical Over view and Implementation Considerations David Klaus Paper Number: 2272; Presentation Number: 8.0504 Pilot Control and Stabilization of a Rate Controlled Vehicle in Hyper-Gravity Torin Clark, Michael Newman, Dan Merfeld Paper Number: 2250; Presentation Number: 8.0505 Dynamic Task Allocation in Operational Sy stems: Issues, Gaps, and Recommendations Aaron Johnson, Kevin Duda, Charles Oman, Tom Sheridan Paper Number: 2087; Presentation Number: 8.0506 The V2Suit \211\333\317Down\211\333 Tracking Algorithm Rebecca Vasquez, Akil Middle ton, Kevin Duda, Dava Newman Paper Number: 2213; Presentation Number: 8.0507 Human Performance with Procedure Automa tion to Manage Spacecraft Systems Debra Schreckenghost, Dorrit Billman, Tod Milam Paper Number: 2477; Presentation Number: 8.0508 A Mission Guided Investigatio n of Operational Functions and User Interface for MAJIC Celena Dopart, Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman Paper Number: 2088; Presentation Number: 8.0509 Modular Bus Technologies, Components and Standardized Spacecraft Reusable, Modular, and Scalable Flight Software L. Jane Hansen, John Hanson Paper Number: 2172; Presentation Number: 8.0601 Development of Attitude Contro l Systems for Modular Spacecraft John Hanson, L. Jane Hansen Paper Number: 2148; Presentation Number: 8.0602 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 23 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


The TET Satellite Bus \226 Futu re Mission Capabilities Anja Nicolai, Stephan Roemer, Silke Eckert Paper Number: 2465; Presentation Number: 8.0603 SMC's Standard Network Adapter for Payloads Garrett Ellis Paper Number: 2544; Presentation Number: 8.0604 Mechanical Systems, Design and Technologies Spin Stabilization Design and Te sting for the Van Allen Probes Simmie Berman, Heather Borowski Weilun Cheng, David Persons Paper Number: 2133; Presentation Number: 8.0701 Evaluation and Test of Different Gear Conc epts for Ka-band Antenn a Pointing Mechanisms Ralf Purschke, Alexander Hoehn Paper Number: 2098; Presentation Number: 8.0702 Europa Clipper Spacecraft Configuration Evolution Alexander Eremenko Paper Number: 2077; Presentation Number: 8.0703 Spacecraft Propulsion and Power Technologies Status of Propulsion and Entry Vehicle Techno logy Development under the NASA ISPT Program David Anderson, Eric Pencil, John Dankanich Paper Number: 2395; Presentation Number: 8.0801 Green Propellant Infusion Mission Program Overview Christopher Mclean, William Deininger, Bryce Unruh Paper Number: 2150; Presentation Number: 8.0802 Description of the Green Propellant In fusion Mission \(GPI M\sion System William Deininger Paper Number: 2627; Presentation Number: 8.0803 Applications of Micro-Cathode Arc Thruster as In-space Propulsion Subsystem for PhoneSat Samudra Haque, Gazulla Oriol Tintore, George Teel Greenfield Trinh, Eddie Ur ibe, Andres Dono Perez Michael Keidar, Elwood Agasid Paper Number: 2324; Presentation Number: 8.0804 Pulse Phase Modulation for On-Off Thruster Pair Runle Du, Jiaqi Liu Paper Number: 2069; Presentation Number: 8.0805 Autonomous Space Exploration Systems and Technologies Onboard and Self-Contained Landing Site Selection for Planet ary Landers/Hoppers Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman, Tye Brady Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 24 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2028; Presentation Number: 8.0901 Vision-Based Terrain-Relative Navigation and Hazard Detection Onboard a Terrestrial Rocket Ted Steiner, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2101; Presentation Number: 8.0902 Morpheus Vertical Test Bed Flight Testing Jennifer Devolites Paper Number: 2562; Presentation Number: 8.0903 Rocket Validation of the ALHAT Autonomous GNC Flight System Steve Paschall, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2045; Presentation Number: 8.0904 New Technologies and Instruments for Scientific Balloon Missions The Use of 3D Printing to Enable High Altitude Balloon Missions Jeremy Straub Paper Number: 2039; Presentation Number: 8.1001 Rapid Development of Balloon-Borne CDH Syst em with a Focus on COTS and Open Source Software Zachary Dischner, Kevin Dinkel, Jedediah Di ller, Nicholas Truesdale, Eliot Young Paper Number: 2345; Presentation Number: 8.1002 Inexpensive Balloon-Borne Observator ies Using Modified COTS Telescopes Eliot Young, Robert Woodruff Paper Number: 2284; Presentation Number: 8.1003 Development of Meter-scale O-shaped and U-shap ed Oscillating Heat Pipes for GAPS Shun Okazaki, Hideyuki Fuke, Hiroyuki Ogawa Paper Number: 2188; Presentation Number: 8.1004 Development of a Meteorology and Remote Sens ing Experimental Platform: The LAICAnSat-1 Pedro Nehme, Renato Borges, Simone Battistini, Chantal Cappelletti Paper Number: 2159; Presentation Number: 8.1005 High Energy Replicated Optics to Explore the Sun: Flight Overview and Astrophysical Pointing Jessica Gaskin, Steven Christe, Ho dge Colleen Wilson, Albert Shih Brian Ramsey, Jeff Apple, Kurtis Dietz Paper Number: 2216; Presentation Number: 8.1006 A Solar Aspect System for the HEROES Mission Steven Christe, Albert Sh ih, Marcello Rodriguez, Kyle Gregory, Alexander Cramer, Melissa Edgerton Brian O'connor, Alexander Sobey, Jessica Gaskin Paper Number: 2400; Presentation Number: 8.1007 10 Meter Sub-Orbital Large Balloon Reflector \(LBR Christopher Walker Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 25 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2630; Presentation Number: 8.1008 First Results from the Hard X-ray Polarimeter X-Calibur Matthias Beilicke Paper Number: 2205; Presentation Number: 8.1009 Design and Performance of the BRRI SON UV-VIS Fine Pointing System Jedediah Diller, Kevin Dinkel, Zachary Dischner, Nicholas Truesdale, Eliot Young Paper Number: 2308; Presentation Number: 8.101 Enabling Systems and Technolo gies for CubeSat/Smallsats A Reusable Command and Data Handling Sy stem for University CubeSat Missions Shaina Johl, Gokul Anandayuvaraj, Sean Horton Paper Number: 2403; Presentation Number: 8.1101 Design and Scientific Return of a Miniaturized Particle Telescope Onboard the CSSWE CubeSat Quintin Schiller Paper Number: 2408; Presentation Number: 8.1102 Fractionated and Distributed Systems Satellite-to-Satellite Optimization Approa ch for Opportunistic Inter-Satellite Links Cruz Ignasi Lluch, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar Paper Number: 2270; Presentation Number: 8.1201 Air Vehicle Systems and Technologies UAV Systems & Autonomy Modeling, Analysis and Fabrication of a Thru st Vectoring Spherical VTOL Aerial Vehicle Sagar Bose, Shibu Clement, Rohan Ve rma, Aditya Tripathi, Kriti Garuda Paper Number: 2097; Presentation Number: 9.0202 Aerodynamic Analysis of BlimPlane- a Conc eptual Hybrid UAV for Venus Exploration Mofeez Alam, Kumar Ashish, Sanjay Limaye Paper Number: 2313; Presentation Number: 9.0203 Aggressive Navigation Using High-S peed Natural Feature Point Tracking Christopher Raabe, John Vian, Emad Saad Paper Number: 2329; Presentation Number: 9.0204 Development of a Multipurpose Tactic al Surveillance System Using UAV's Rodrigo Rangel Paper Number: 2251; Presentation Number: 9.0205 A New Hybrid Motor Glider-Quadrotor MAV for In-Flight/V-STOL Launching Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernandes, Marcelo Becker, Fernando M. Catalano, Fabio Zanini Joao L. E. M. Nobrega, Caio Martins Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 26 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2501; Presentation Number: 9.0206 SquidCop: Design and Evaluation of a No vel Quadrotor MAV for In-\225\302\342ight Launching Air-Ground Missions Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernandes, Marcelo Becker, Fernando M. Catalano, Fabio Zanini Joao L. E. M. Nobrega, Caio Martins Paper Number: 2500; Presentation Number: 9.0207 Development of a Circulation Control Wing for UAVs Konstantinos Kanistras, Matthew Rutherford, Kimon Valavanis Paper Number: 2439; Presentation Number: 9.0208 Comparing the Economic and Regulatory State of UAS & Commercial Space Flight Harrison Wolf Paper Number: 2555; Presentation Number: 9.0209 Modeling of Real-Time Flight Control System for Small Coaxial Helicopter Seong Jin Lee Paper Number: 2530; Presentation Number: 9.021 Quantification of High Level Safety Crit eria for Civil Unmanned Aircraft Systems Xun Lin, Neale Fulton, Mark Horn Paper Number: 2619; Presentation Number: 9.0211 Three-dimensional Path Planning for Unmann ed Aerial Vehicles Based on Fluid Flow Xiao Liang Paper Number: 2707; Presentation Number: 9.0212 Airborne Imaging for Cultural Heritage Tom Wypych Paper Number: 2717; Presentation Number: 9.0213 Artificial Homeostasis for Vehicle Contro l Architecture of Unmanned Spacecraft Carlos Insaurralde, Emil Vassev Paper Number: 2543; Presentation Number: 9.0214 Multi Disciplinary Optimization Design of Modern Airship Based on Genetic Algorithm Masood Mayanbari Paper Number: 2647; Presentation Number: 9.0215 Aircraft Systems & Avionics Stochastic 4D Trajectory Optimizati on for Aircraft Conflict Resolution Yoshinori Matsuno, Takeshi Tsuchiya Paper Number: 2207; Presentation Number: 9.0301 Estimating the Internal Volume Requirement in a Multivariate Design Synthesis of a BWB Aircraft Paulinus Okonkwo Paper Number: 2281; Presentation Number: 9.0303 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 27 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


A Novel Pump Design for an Efficient and Compact Electro-Hydraulic Actuator Gabriele Altare, Andrea Vacca, Carl Richter Paper Number: 2651; Presentation Number: 9.0304 Short-Term Turning in Presence of Wind as a Trajectory Optimization Problem Kamran Turkoglu Paper Number: 2652; Presentation Number: 9.0305 Air Vehicle Flight Controls Optimal Position Transfer Analysis of Stratospheric Airs hip in Wind Field Zhou Jianghua, Li Zhaojie, Sheng Wang, Jiang Luhua Paper Number: 2071; Presentation Number: 9.0401 Analyses and Comparisons for Several Flight Co ntrol Configuration of Stratospheric Airship Jing Gang Miao, Fan Wang, Yan Chu Yang, Xiang Qiang Zhang Paper Number: 2142; Presentation Number: 9.0402 Software and Computing Computational Modeling Multi-resolution Rapid Prototyping of Vehicle Cooling Systems Maciej Pindera Paper Number: 2019; Presentation Number: 10.0101 Feature Selective Validation Rohit Nijhawan Paper Number: 2024; Presentation Number: 10.0102 Designing a Fuzzy Logic Controller for the Reyn olds Number in a Blowdown Supersonic Wind Tunnel Shahrbabaki Amin Nazarian, Ali Shahriyari, Manshadi Mojtaba Dehghan Paper Number: 2146; Presentation Number: 10.0103 Bird Strike Analysis of Jet Engine Fan Blade Narender Lakshman, Ratnesh Raj, Yagnavalkya Mukkamala Paper Number: 2158; Presentation Number: 10.0104 Ammonia-Water Solution Clou d Modeling of Gas Giant Planets via Phase Equilibrium Calculations Virgil Adumitroaie Paper Number: 2513; Presentation Number: 10.0105 Computational Modeling of Chan nel Length Modulation in Ca rbon Nanotube Field Effect Transistors Adam Bushmaker Paper Number: 2538; Presentation Number: 10.0106 Flow Regimes in an Air Conditio ned Measuring Equipment Laboratory Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 28 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Ahmed Farag Paper Number: 2691; Presentation Number: 10.0107 A Multiscale Turbulence Prediction and Al ert System for Airports in Hilly Regions Adil Rasheed, Karstein S\314\374rli Paper Number: 2679; Presentation Number: 10.0108 Software Engineering Autonomous Real Time Requirements Tracing George Plattsmier, Howard Stetson Paper Number: 2100; Presentation Number: 10.0201 TSEpoch: An Object Oriented Design for Representing Time Lawrence Brown, Jon Vandegriff Paper Number: 2348; Presentation Number: 10.0202 Open Source RTOS Implementation for on Board Computer \(OBC\SAT-2 Bheema Rajulu, Sankar Dasiga, Naveen Iyer Paper Number: 2413; Presentation Number: 10.0203 On Development of Hilbert-Huan g Transform Data Processing Real Time System with 2-D Capabilities Semion Kizhner Paper Number: 2703; Presentation Number: 10.0204 A Test Scripting Framework for Automated Flig ht SW V&V Testing: Van Allen Probes Lessons Learned Jeremiah Finnigan Paper Number: 2010; Presentation Number: 10.0205 Confidence in Spacecraft So ftware: Continuous Process Improvement in Requirements Verification Kristin Wortman, Maria Spezio Paper Number: 2072; Presentation Number: 10.0206 Testing of Safety-Critical Systems An Aerospace La unch Application Ahmed Gario, Anneliese Andrews, Seana Hagerman Paper Number: 2495; Presentation Number: 10.0207 Software Architecture and Design Abstraction of Abstraction \226 an Outline of General Schedulin g Platform for Space Missions Jinjiang Xing Paper Number: 2655; Presentation Number: 10.0302 The Study of the Virtual Machine fo r Space Real-Time Embedded Systems Sooyeon Kang, Hyungshin Kim Paper Number: 2695; Presentation Number: 10.0303 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 29 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Robust and Modular On-board Architec ture for Future Robotic Spacecraft Steffen Jaekel, Martin Stelzer, Hans Herpel Paper Number: 2376; Presentation Number: 10.0304 Model-based Systems and Software Engineering TES' Model-based Systems Engineering \(MBSE\FACETM Applications Stephen Simi Paper Number: 2110; Presentation Number: 10.0401 SOS for SoS: A New Paradigm fo r System of Systems Modeling Matthew Hause Paper Number: 2320; Presentation Number: 10.0402 MBSE without a Process-Based Data Architecture Is Just a Set of Random Characters Robert Crain Paper Number: 2111; Presentation Number: 10.0403 Model-Based GN&C Simulation and Flight Soft ware Development for Orion Missions beyond LEO Ryan Odegard, Zoran Milenkovic Paper Number: 2128; Presentation Number: 10.0404 A Model-Driven Visualization Tool for Use wi th Model-Based Systems Engineering Projects Kathryn Trase, Eric Fink Paper Number: 2192; Presentation Number: 10.0405 Integrated Model-Based Systems Engineering MBSE\d to Simulation of the RAX CubeSat Mission David Kaslow, Sara Spangelo, Grant Soremekun, Hongman Kim Paper Number: 2289; Presentation Number: 10.0406 New HiL Evaluation of an H-In f Controller on the Stabilization of a MAV in Flight Simulation Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernan des, Marcelo Becker Fernando M. Catalano Paper Number: 2521; Presentation Number: 10.0407 Model-Based Requirements Generation Brian London Paper Number: 2584; Presentation Number: 10.0408 Automatic Code Generation for Spacecra ft Attitude Determination and Control Bryce Carpenter Paper Number: 2686; Presentation Number: 10.0409 Implementing Artificial Intelligence for Aerospace Integrating Artificial Intelligence Techniqu es to Generate Ground Station Schedules Costas Tsatsoulis, Michele Van Dyne Paper Number: 2103; Presentation Number: 10.0501 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 30 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Missile Trajectory Optimization Usin g a Modified Ant Colony Algorithm Zachary Kiyak, Timothy Ledlow Paper Number: 2185; Presentation Number: 10.0502 Missile System Design Using a Hybrid Evolving Swarm Algorithm Timothy Ledlow, Zachary Kiyak Paper Number: 2225; Presentation Number: 10.0503 Distributed Multi-Agent Systems \226 a Litera ture Survey and Inquisitive Discussion Christopher Elliott Paper Number: 2504; Presentation Number: 10.0504 Star Tracker Orientation Optimization Using Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm \(NSGA Fabricio Carvalho, Francisco Salazar Paper Number: 2616; Presentation Number: 10.0505 Human-Computer Interaction Exploration with Live Stereoscopic 3D Video in Mixed Reality Environments Jason Kimball, Tom Wypych Paper Number: 2347; Presentation Number: 10.0601 Limitations of Crowdsourcing Using the EMS1998 Scale in Remote Disaster Sensing Andrew Huynh, Michael Eguchi Albert Lin, Ronald Eguchi Paper Number: 2602; Presentation Number: 10.0602 An EMG Enhanced Impedance and Force Control Framework for Telerobot Operation in Space Ning Wang, Chenguang Yang Michael Lyu, Zhijun Li Paper Number: 2675; Presentation Number: 10.0603 Cloud Computing Secure Hybrid Cloud Computing: Approach and Use Cases Kapil Bakshi Paper Number: 2078; Presentation Number: 10.0701 Cloud Computing for Geodetic Imaging Da ta Processing, Analysis, and Modeling Andrea Donnellan, Jay Parker, Jun Wang, Yu Ma, Marlon Pierce Paper Number: 2223; Presentation Number: 10.0702 A Survivability-Centered Rese arch Agenda for Cloud Comp uting Supported ERM Systems Zhanshan \(Sam Paper Number: 2696; Presentation Number: 10.0703 Diagnostics, Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM PHM for Aerospace Subsystems, Components and Structures Uncertainty in Prognostics: Computat ional Methods and Practical Challenges Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 31 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Shankar Sankararaman, Kai Goebel Paper Number: 2338; Presentation Number: 11.0101 Current/Pressure Transducer Application of Model-Based Prognostics Using Steady State Conditions Christopher Teubert, Matthew Daigle Paper Number: 2323; Presentation Number: 11.0102 Prognostics for Electronics and Avionic Systems Universal Auto-Calibration for a Rapid Batte ry Impedance Spectrum Measurement Device John Morrison, William Morrison Paper Number: 2030; Presentation Number: 11.0201 Integrated Diagnostics and Time to Maintenanc e Estimation for Complex Engineering Systems Mohammad Azam, David Kleinman, Somnath Deb, Deepak Haste, Suvasri Mandal Paper Number: 2642; Presentation Number: 11.0202 Algorithms and Advanced Concepts for Diagnostics and PHM Automatic Systems Diagnosis without Behavioral Models Rui Abreu Paper Number: 2162; Presentation Number: 11.0401 The Use of Data Signatures in Condition Based Maintenance Plus Charles Crabb Paper Number: 2674; Presentation Number: 11.0402 Design Attributes for Diagnostics and Prognostics Health Monitoring Requirements Elicitation via House of Quality Gianluca Nicchiotti Paper Number: 2473; Presentation Number: 11.0601 Total Ownership Cost Reduction for Complex Sy stems through the Design and Application of CBM Jeffrey Banks Paper Number: 2565; Presentation Number: 11.0602 PHM Technologies for Reliability and System Maintenance J69-T-25A Engine Comp onent Failure Analysis Irfan Manarvi Paper Number: 2443; Presentation Number: 11.0701 Analyzing T-53 Series Engines Defect Trends through Maintenance History Irfan Manarvi Paper Number: 2446; Presentation Number: 11.0702 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 32 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Systems Health Mana g ement for Space Systems and Operations Model-Based Fault Management for Spacecraft Autonomy Prather Ksenia Kolcio, Paul Zetocha, Louis Breger Paper Number: 2026; Presentation Number: 11.0801 Maturation of Health Management Technologies via Ground/Flight Testing and Research Robust Monitoring of Turbofan Sensors Jerome Lacaille Paper Number: 2059; Presentation Number: 11.1001 Application of Model-based Prognost ics to a Pneumatic Valves Testbed Matthew Daigle, Chetan Kulkarni, George Gorospe Paper Number: 2293; Presentation Number: 11.1002 PHM for Astronauts and Pilots Performance Assessment & Motion Planning Optimization in a Su rgical Trainer for Potential Space Use Aakarsh Rao, Minsik Hong, Akash Shankaran, Jerzy Rozenblit, Wolfgang Fink Paper Number: 2511; Presentation Number: 11.1101 Planning a Pilot Project on the ISS for Crew Health Management & Maintenance beyond LEO Wolfgang Fink, Alexandre Popov, Andrew Hess Paper Number: 2680; Presentation Number: 11.1102 Real-time Online Health Analytics for Interplanetary Space Missions J. Mikael Eklund, Carolyn Mc Gregor Paper Number: 2604; Presentation Number: 11.1103 Personal Health Care and Corresponding Techno logy with Prognostic Capability. Issues and Challenges Olha Kevorkova, Alexandre Popov Paper Number: 2649; Presentation Number: 11.1104 Portable System to Monitor Astronaut Ocul ar Health and the De velopment of the VIIP Syndrome Wolfgang Fink, David Hilmers, Mark Tarbell Paper Number: 2657; Presentation Number: 11.1105 Probabilistic Design for Reliability of Aerospace Electronics Application of Multi-Parametric Boltzma nn-Arrhrnius-Zhurkov Model in Aerospace Optoelectronics Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2009; Presentation Number: 11.1201 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 33 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Aerospace Electronic Packaging: Thermal St ress in Bi- and Tri-Material Assemblies Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2015; Presentation Number: 11.1202 Prediction of Remaining Useful Life of Ball-Gr id-Array Interconnections from Testing on Board Level Laurent Bechou, Derigny David Gucik Paper Number: 2126; Presentation Number: 11.1203 Utilizing Confidence Bounds in Failure Mode Effects Analysis \(FMEA\d Risk Assessment Marc Banghart Paper Number: 2114; Presentation Number: 11.1204 Reliability Testing for Efficien t Validation and Qualification Joseph Bernstein Paper Number: 2049; Presentation Number: 11.1205 HALT, FOAT, and Their Role in Making a Viable Device into a Reliable Product Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2050; Presentation Number: 11.1206 Using Physics of Failure to Predict System Level Reliability for Avionic Electronics Greg Caswell Paper Number: 2053; Presentation Number: 11.1207 Injection-Coupled Devices \(ICDs\peration Pr inciple, Applications Design-for-Reliability Konstantin Tapero, Victor Murashev Pavel Ivshin, Sergey Legotin, Andrey Krasnov, Dmitry Elnikov Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2157; Presentation Number: 11.1208 Improved Methods for Development of High Reliability Electronics Jue Li Paper Number: 2183; Presentation Number: 11.1209 Long Term In-vacuum Reliability Testing of 980nm Laser Diode Pump Modules for Space Applications Laurent Bechou Paper Number: 2165; Presentation Number: 11.121 Some Major Guiding Principles to Make Future Manned Missions to Mars Safe and Reliable Jean Marc Salotti, Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2083; Presentation Number: 11.1211 Designing with Consideration of the Human Fact or: Changing the Paradigm for Higher Safety Sylvain Hourlier, Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2614; Presentation Number: 11.1212 PHM for Autonomous Systems A Battery Health Monitoring Framework for Planetary Rovers Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 34 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Matthew Daigle, Chetan Kulkarni Paper Number: 2291; Presentation Number: 11.1301 PHM for Propulsion Systems Fusing an Ensemble of Divers e Prognostic Life Predictions Oliver Laslett, Zaidan Martha Arbayani Bin, Robert Harr ison, Andrew Mills Paper Number: 2191; Presentation Number: 11.1401 Ground and Space Operations Spacecraft Development and F light Operations:  Challenges Successes, Failures and Lessons Learned Redesign of CloudSat's Maneuver s for Robust Delta-V Operations Ian Gravseth Paper Number: 2131; Presentation Number: 12.0101 ARTEMIS Operations \226 Experi ences and Lessons Learned Manfred Bester Paper Number: 2464; Presentation Number: 12.0102 Juno Spacecraft Operations Lessons Learned for Early Cruise Mission Phases Jeff Lewis Paper Number: 2554; Presentation Number: 12.0103 Changing the Paradigm GSFC's Role in th e MAVEN Mission. Lessons Learned from the MOS/GDS Effort John Hughes, Rosa Carlos Gomez, Brian Thibaudeau Francis Wasiak, Agustin Alfonzo, Juan Cifuentes Paper Number: 2705; Presentation Number: 12.0104 Design of a Spacecraft I&T Facility at the John s Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory William Liggett Paper Number: 2200; Presentation Number: 12.0105 Flight/Ground Systems, Mission Planning and Operations Careful and Accurate Placement of Avionics Boxes during Maintenance of Flight Hardware Damon Stambolian, Shihab Asfour, Moataz Eltoukhy Paper Number: 2361; Presentation Number: 12.0201 Design and Development of a Free-Floati ng Hexrotor UAV for 6-DOF Maneuvers Evan Kaufman, Kiren Caldwell, Daewon Lee, Taeyoung Lee Paper Number: 2527; Presentation Number: 12.0202 Using Vicon Bodybuilder and Plug-In-Gait to Generate L5/S1 Angles, Forces and Moments Damon Stambolian, Shihab Asfour, Moataz Eltoukhy Paper Number: 2656; Presentation Number: 12.0205 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 35 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


MAVEN Information Security Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance \(GRC Learned Eduardo Takamura, Kevin Mangum, Ro sa Carlos Gomez Francis Wasiak Paper Number: 2700; Presentation Number: 12.0206 Aerospace Aircraft Information Display System for Flight Operations in ND Ronald Marsh Paper Number: 2212; Presentation Number: 12.0207 Managing Life Cycle Cost and Risk - Affordability Operability, Sustainability, and Automation A Critical Analysis of Additive Manufacturi ng Technologies for Aerospace Applications Atin Angrish Paper Number: 2601; Presentation Number: 12.0301 Human Space Flight Operations and Processing Space Shuttle Launch Probability Analysis: Un derstanding History So We Can Predict the Future Grant Cates Paper Number: 2502; Presentation Number: 12.0401 Payload and Instrument Operations and Processing Cold Atom Laboratory Mission System Design Melissa Soriano, Anita Sengupta, Kristen Virkler Paper Number: 2084; Presentation Number: 12.0501 Extreme Environment SImulation - a New Capability to Simulate Venus and Other Planetary Bodies Tibor Kremic Paper Number: 2353; Presentation Number: 12.0502 Management, Systems Engineering and Cost System Simulation and Verification Response Surface Based Performance Anal ysis of an Air-Defense Missile System Kerem Gunaydin, Tayfun \307imen Paper Number: 2208; Presentation Number: 13.0101 Modeling and Simulation of Asteroid Retrieval Using a Flexible Capture Mechanism Havard Grip, Jonathan Cameron, Calvin Kuo Steven Myint, Masahiro Ono, Marco Quadrelli Paper Number: 2488; Presentation Number: 13.0102 Analysis of Rover Transmission Interruption Guinian Feng Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 36 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2585; Presentation Number: 13.0103 Risk Management: Application and Lessons Learned Low-Cost, Risk-Reduction Testing of Class D Spacecraft Photovoltaic Systems Joshua Forgione Paper Number: 2605; Presentation Number: 13.0201 A Practical Application of a Systems Engineering Process in Space Avionics Design and Development Patrick Phelan Paper Number: 2645; Presentation Number: 13.0202 Cost and Schedule Tools, Methods and Processes Historical Mass, Power, Schedule & Cost Growth for NASA Science Instruments Robert Bitten, Stephen Shinn Paper Number: 2107; Presentation Number: 13.0301 Life-cycle Cost Simulation of a New Implemen tation Process of Government Space Systems Paul Speth, Paul Blessner, Tim Blackburn Paper Number: 2240; Presentation Number: 13.0302 Exploring Classification Algorithms for Early Mission Formulation Cost Estimation Net Marc Sanchez, Daniel Selva, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar Paper Number: 2304; Presentation Number: 13.0303 NASA Instrument Cost Model for Expl orer-like Mission Instruments \(NICM-E Joseph Mrozinski, Agahi Hamid Habib, George Fox Paper Number: 2537; Presentation Number: 13.0304 Enterprise Modeling for Cubesats Louise Anderson, Christopher Lo we, David Kaslow, Eric Sudano Rose Yntema, Sharanabasaweshwara Asundi, Sara Spangelo Paper Number: 2341; Presentation Number: 13.0305 Cost and Risk Analysis of Small Satel lite Constellations for Earth Observation Sreeja Nag, Jacqueline Le Moigne, Olivier De Weck Paper Number: 2459; Presentation Number: 13.0306 FTE Tool, a Practical Tool for Analyzing St affing Levels and Cost across Missions Justin Mc Neill Paper Number: 2279; Presentation Number: 13.0307 Management Tools, Methods and Processes The Legacy of Faster-Better-Cheaper: Too Much Risk or Over-reaction to Failure Merrill Robin Dillon, Peter Madsen Paper Number: 2017; Presentation Number: 13.0401 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 37 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Risk-Based Space System Design: A Novel Prob abilistic Approach to Design Risk for Small Satellites Alessandra Babuscia, Kar Ming Cheung Paper Number: 2091; Presentation Number: 13.0402 Collaborative Engineering in Competitive Environments: Th e PTSS Integrated Systems Engineering Team James Leary, Patrick Stadte r, Patrick Binning, David Durey, Jae Heiner, Stephen Kendrick, Dan Schwab Dana Southwood Paper Number: 2130; Presentation Number: 13.0403 Model Linking to Improve Visibility and Re usability of Models during Space System Development Meenakshi Deshmukh, Ren\351 Schwarz, Lopez Rosa Paris Paper Number: 2224; Presentation Number: 13.0404 Boeing's 702 Product Line : Sy stem Engineering a Cost Effective Product Portfolio Strategy Richard Milford Paper Number: 2402; Presentation Number: 13.0405 NASA's New Space Flight Project Requirements Earlier Definition for Later Cost Stability Jeffery Webster Paper Number: 2549; Presentation Number: 13.0406 Using Monte Carlo Simulation as Support for Decision Making While Negotiating a PBL Contract Jan Block Paper Number: 2668; Presentation Number: 13.0407 Using Organizational Messages to Improve the Recognition of Near-Miss Events on Projects Merrill Robin Dillon, Catherine Tinsley Paper Number: 2016; Presentation Number: 13.0408 Mission Modeling, Concept Optimization and Concurrent Design Multi-stakeholder Interactive Simulati on for Federated Satellite Systems Paul Grogan, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar, Olivier De Weck Paper Number: 2163; Presentation Number: 13.0501 Remote Sensing Satellite System Overall Effectiveness Analysis and Modeling Abou Bakr Elhady Paper Number: 2671; Presentation Number: 13.0502 Deep Space Navigation Mission Design and Analysis Tool Prather Ksenia Kolcio, Paul Graven Paper Number: 2023; Presentation Number: 13.0503 Systems Architecture, Engineeri ng and System of Systems Optimization of a Small Sate llite Tridyne Propulsion System Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 38 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Brian Cohen, Robert Legge Paper Number: 2036; Presentation Number: 13.0601 Experiments in Knowledge-intensive System Architecting: Interactive Architecture Optimization Daniel Selva Paper Number: 2217; Presentation Number: 13.0602 Computer-aided Design & A ssessment of Disaggregate Space System Architectures Robert Thompson Paper Number: 2214; Presentation Number: 13.0603 In-Space Transportation Infrastructure Arch itecture Decisions Using a Weighted Graph Approach Peter Davison, Bruce Cameron Paper Number: 2257; Presentation Number: 13.0604 Trade Space Evaluation of Ascent and Return Ar chitectures for a Mars Sample Return Mission Farah Alibay, Zachary Bailey Paper Number: 2298; Presentation Number: 13.0605 Technology Transfer and Commercialization NASA Innovation Ecosystem: Host to a Go vernment Technology Innovation Network Jill Hardash Paper Number: 2570; Presentation Number: 13.0701 Consideration of Risk versus Reward in Balancing Technology Portfolios Richard Terrile, Andrea Belz Paper Number: 2639; Presentation Number: 13.0702 Promoting \(and Provoking The Politics of Space Launch: All Launch Systems Are Not Nominal Mark Bitterman Paper Number: 2392; Presentation Number: 13.0801 Students Touch Space in Zero Robotics Pr ogramming Competition with Free Downloadable Curriculum Jenny Liu Paper Number: 2673; Presentation Number: 13.0802 From STEM to STEAM: Towards Aerospace Partnerships with Cu ltural Heritage Diagnostics Ashley Richter Paper Number: 2598; Presentation Number: 13.0803 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 39 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


