Hiding the Trace of JPEG Compression History 
Hong Yang, Zhiping Zhou School of Internet of Things Engineering Jiangnan University Wuxi, China e-mail: redsheep3@foxmail.com 
Abstract 
Identifying and disguising the JPEG compression history has become a hot research point in recent days. The image forger could easily get the JPEG images as tampering materials, while the JPEG loss compression left a big influence on the image s DCT histogram. This JPEG compression trace has become an important standpoint of compression forensic. In order to fool the compression forensic 
 
 
the anti-forensic dithers have been added into the JPEG compressed image and became an uncompressed image format However, that kind of fake lossless image could be identified by measuring ho 
recompressing. This paper would help the forger  hide JPEG compression history by recompressing and adding noise at different quality factor and restore the image quality by TV denoising. It could defend forensic attack aiming at antiforensic dither by measuring the total variation \(TV\ of the image. The simulation results have proved that it can fool the 
w ènoisyê the uncompressed image is after 
TV detection forensic with a high image quality 
I M OTIVATION With the development of the electronic information technology, digital image has become more and more convenience in the daily life on the multimedia sharing platform, it is easy and conven ience to tamper the digital image. However as a carrier of spreading information, the authenticity of the digital image has a great importance in legal, academic and other fields. But now the forensic technology always ignores the cheating method aiming at 
Keywords-Anti-forensics ;JPEG compression; Total variation DCT histogram 
detective features. In order to get an objective result, it is necessary to research the tampering method at the anti forensic point The cat-and-mouse game between the forensic and antiforensic has become a hot research topic in recent years 
e JPEG compression F o r i t h as b e e n  w ildly u s ed  in  ou r dai l y lif e Fan.Z and Queiroz.R propose a maximum-likehood\(ML method[2 t o es tim ate th e q u a ntiza ti on f a c t o r s  an d  de te c t  JPEG image compression history. By comparing the quantization tables, Farid verifies the authenticity of JPEG 
especially tracing an imageês processing history lik 
image[3  T h ese qu antiz ati o n  ta bl es a r e  em pl oy ed by  selected digital camera models and image editing software He shows the local evidence of double JPEG compression to identify image forgeries. If the JPEG image has previously been JPEG compressed, it can be detected by the papers[45   F r i d r i c h a n d P e vny  6  use a m a xi m u m l i k e l i hood estimator of the primary quality factor to detect double JPEG 
compression can be used to identify image forgeries [7  A n d  the local tampering regions[8  
compression. The localize regionês double JPEG the imageês JPEG block artifact grid mismatch can indicate 
s the anti-forensic dither into the DCT coefficient histograms [9  W ith  th is di th er  th e DC T  
Figure 1.  Histogram of \(2,2\CT coefficients of true lossless image JPEG image and the anti-forensically modified JPEG compressed image However, the main JPEG history detection method analyzes the nature of DCT coefficients, and uses the influence of loss compression which is left on DCT coefficients in the frequency domain, it can reach the goal of forensic. So, in Fig 1, Stamm has an investigation on the palisade shapeé effect, and add coefficient histogram turn discrete distribution to çlikely 
continuous distributioné. While the anti 
forensic technology original the anti-forensic dither could be detected by the special detection, and analyze the compression history. But among the counter anti-forensic techno logy, the anti-forensic dither detector by using the total variation \(TV\, the l1 norm of the spatial first-order derivatives, is efficient and has high correct rate result[11  In th e f o l l ow in g pa rt  of th is w o rk w e w o u l d have a research on the countering anti-forensic algorithm 
could give an uncompressed image in statistics 
based on the TV detection and propose a new method which could fool the TV forensic at a little image quality cost II C OUNTER THE ANTI FORENSIC JPEG COMPRESSION 
A Total Vari ation Value 
  an d ca lcula te  h o w n o isy th e 
The image total variation model is proposed by Rudin[13 image is . The l1 norm of the spatial first-order derivative shows the total variation of the image signal\(1 
2014 Fourth International Conference on Communication Systems and Network Technologies 978-1-4799-3070-8/14 $31.00 © 2014 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CSNT.2014.187 909 
2014 Fourth International Conference on Communication Systems and Network Technologies 978-1-4799-3070-8/14 $31.00 © 2014 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CSNT.2014.187 909 


u u TV TV TV TV u minTV B Distortion Analysis D E C Detect the Anti-forensic Dither TV TV TV 
TV u u dxdy 
trace which comes from the DCT coefficients distortion. The geometrical significance can be show in the Figure 2 Figure 2.  five one-dimensional model of the signal In the Figure 2 of one-dimensional signals, these signals are all satisfy 0 c\a. It can be proved that u1 u2 u3 u5\a-b            \(2 In \(2 4 is not a monotonic function, so it is not u And the DCT coefficients distorti on would bring this kind of unnecessary variation into the image while it could be removed by TV denoising The G.Valenzise team analyzes the JPEG anti-forensic s effect on the DCT coefficients distortion and the quality of image In order to detect the anti-forensic dither in the nzise inspired by H.Farid[14  and find out the mean square error between the recompressed the anti-forensic dither. X is the original JPEG image DCT coefficient, and Y is the reco mpressed JPEG image with the quality Q ,like \(3 Q n  x-y 2              3  In Figure 3 when the reco mpressed image and the original JPEG image have the same quality factor with the source JPEG image, the distortion brought by interpolating noise has disappeared. And when the recompressed image becomes bigger, the distortion of the DCT coefficients becomes larger. On the other hand, when the recompressed s original JPEG quality factor becomes smaller than the original JPEG image s, in the spatial domain the frequency signal. In a real scenario, the investigators could not get access to the original JPEG compressed image data There is no objective reference to compare, so in Figure 4 the researcher use the TV value of the test image Figure 3.  MSE distortion between each anti-forensically image recompressed result and the true original JPEG image The Italian researcher G.Valenzise attacked the tampering method of the JPEG history from the noise, the practical process is recompressing the tested image at the different quality and measure the total variation function with variables quality. And calculate the parameter of the function, \(4 Q A  Q A n\\n               \(4 If there is a Q A can satisfy the formula, it is proved that the image has been added the anti-forensic dither. And the Q A is the original image JPEG compress quality factor Figure 4.  Total variation as a function of the re-compression quality factor, for two versions of the Lenna image This forensic method have a good effect on the lossless image format JPEG compression history. This is because the anti-forensic JPEG compression adds noise by DCT dither at the cost of influence of the spatial domain. In the paper[12   G.Valenzise analyzes the distortion at every DCT 8 000h 8 domain position. And the TV value, spatial l1 norm, could reflect the dither in the image. This dither at the spatial pixels cannot reflect the texture and edge information; it can be detected from the distortion variation at the DCT domain in each quality factor. When the quality factor is over the original one, there will be a sharp change of the TV value and the image quality decrease The phenomenon that fake bigger than the true 
 
002 003\004 005 
1 The coefficient can accurately reflect the degree of noise image, and at the same time, it can distinguish the actual 
n Q A  
imageês edge and texture. It could reflect the special period dither operation uncompressedé image, G.Vale uncompressed imageé and the original JPEG image without image  distortion would be covered by imageês intrinsic high lossless imageês quality loss is much 
910 
910 


  
A Forensic Analysis B Total Variation ba sed Noise Removal u 0 u n n n C Defense of the Anti-forensic Dither Detection 
obviously enough to tell the difference between true or not true III T HE FRAMEWORK OF DEFENSE OF ANTI FORENSIC DITHER DETECTION The TV value detection depends on the distortion variation trend of the image quality by the quality factor increasing. The JPEG compression with the source image quality factor has just suppressed dither signal into the original quantized DCT coefficients, while other quality factor compression divide the dithering signal into different neighboring bins. One distribution of noise is re-quantized into an unnatural DCT coefficient. This would bring the distortion increasing. In order to deal with this problem, we can add different distribution of noise several times, but this would cost the quality of the image. So we could add noise and removal noise at the same time The anti-forensic dither is only a statistical signal and it could bring no meaningful information into the image. In order to suppress the distortion of the noise, we could use the TV denoise that it could distinguish a special distribution of noise The TV denoise could preserving image edge and texture At first stands for image with noise stands for target image means the noise that this algorithm supposed to be removed. In the constraints of noise find the solution that the total variation is the minimum number. The preset noise of subjects to two constraints The preset noise average is 0 The noise variance difference forensic dither and the original JPEG image. MSE 2 is the square error at the last JPEG original factor and the original JPEG image. However, this value is could adjust larger or smaller, it s not a fixed value The difference of TV function between the true lossless image and the fake lossless image comes from the antiforensic dither. It could not restore the original information loss while compression, with random information on statistical significance. The distortion comparing with the original JPEG image shows up most obviously in the mid frequency domain, and in the high frequency domain the distortion is nearly 0. From the paper[12  it can b e k n ow n  bigger, or the quantifying step size q becomes smaller, the MSE brought by anti-forensic dither would become smaller This means if the quantifying step size q become smaller, the statistical characteristics of DCT compressed image would be more and more close to the original uncompressed image Defense against the nois e detection are mainly concentrated in two points: 1 original quality factor has disappear. 2.Control the noise of the recompressed JPEG images. For the first task, the turning point ma integral multiples. When the quality factor become smaller the distortion is high, and the turning point is more obvious when the quality factor become bigger, the trend of the MSE curve is more gentle by the quality factor growing. So, the recompression operation could move the turning point to the higher point, and the MSE curve become much more similar to the uncompressed image. But recompress the image with anti-forensic dither at a higher JPEG compression factor would bring more distortion and cause image loss. In order to deal with these distortion, TV denoise method is used to restore the image loss during the recompression, and remove the dither brought by the distortion, especially the mid frequency DCT coefficients. The DCT coefficient error would leave the image periodic traces. Although when detector recompressed the image with a higher quality factor becomes close to the uncompressed one. And when the recompress quality factor is larger than 90, the TV function comes out to be a smooth curve. Meanwhile, the total variation based noise removal can lead the recompress fake image, by adjusting the preset noise variance. This would reach the anti-forensic goal without damage the image edge and texture 
lossless imageês, is is \002 losslessé image with anti between the recompressed çlossless image  that when the Laplace distribution coefficient \003 becomes Masks the quality factorês turning point, which means TV functionês saltation after the inly depend on the original quantification step the turning point wouldnêt disappear, the TV function imageês TV value nearly the same with the original lossless 
Pseudo-Code while do if if else end else end  while do { if else end 
2  it is the difference value between MSE 1 and MSE 2 MSE 1 is the mean square error between the fake 
1:   Set 2 3 ADD_NOISE  4 QUALITY  5   6   7   8 9 10 11 12 13 JPEG  14 ADD_NOISE  15 16 TV_L1NORM  TV_L1NORM\(JPEG  17 TV_L1NORM  TV_L1NORM  18 ABS  19 VAR  20 ABS  21   22 23 24 25 TV  
xiao=0.01, lam=0 origin lena.jpg wipe origin q 0 origin q<90 q*1.5<90 q*2<90 q=q*1.5 q=\(q+90\2 q=90 jpg_1 wipe,q wipe jpg_1 diff1 origin wipe,q diff2 origin wipe diff diff1-diff2 var_1 diff diff<xiao diff>0 var=var*0.98 var=var*1.02 wipe wipe,lam 
911 
911 


 
Stammês 98 36.23dB Proposed 0 36.27dB 50 Stammês 98 37.25dB Proposed 4 37.03dB 70 Stammês 96 37.37dB Proposed 2 37.14dB 
l JPEG imageês TV factorê TV value 003 histogram indirectly. It could be ensure the imageês quality   according to the Stammês method and get the fake lossless lines in the figure, represent the Stammês fake lossless image this paperês fake lossless image and the true lossless image      
 
The purpose is that let the origina is nearly the final lossless image compress at original quality The image interpolator get a JPEG image with the quality factor q 0 he could add anti-forensic dither to become a BMP format. And then recompressed the BMP image if the original quality is smaller than 90. This recompression would bring distortion of the DCT coefficients, but the quality factor of the recompress operation has become bigger than before, which means that the quantify step is smaller. Based on the recompressed image with a high quality fact or, we add the anti-forensic dither again to cover the previous noise. We knew that the smaller quantify step size or bigger Laplace distribution coefficient would make the statistical characteristics of the DCT coefficients be more likely the true uncompressed image. The TV forensic detection accuracy perform so well when attack a fake lossless image which is manufactured on the original JPEG image with a high quality factor. After several times of JPEG compression or adding noise to the image, the quality of the image costs so much, and the TV function grows faster with the quality factor than usual despite the turning point is not so obvious. We could use the TV denoise to restore image quality and reduce the TV value The TV denoise will affect the histogram distribution of the frequency domain from the spatial domain. The previous anti-forensic dither has been divided into different DCT coefficient integer multiples, which leads the recompressed JPEG image is different from th e first JPEG image. It is the DCT coefficient could not describe the true image content and the detection method could compare how noisy of the different recompressed JPEG images and by calculating the turning point, the detector could know the original quality factor of the JPEG image. In this paper, the anti-forensic method adjusts the distribution of the DCT coefficient for the recompress quality factor is growing. For TV denoise the fake lossless image has a strong deceptive IV T HE SIMULATION AND CONCLUSION For the simulation, an MATLAB implementation is based on the script coming from the Matthew C. Stamm homepage. At first, we use the 512 512 gray image JPEG compressed them with the 30, 50, 70 quality factor as the original JPEG image. We add the noise image. Then the fake lossless image is recompressed by a higher quality factor and add anti-forensic dither by the proposed framework in this paper. The final images is checked by the TV test respectively in Figure 6.The following figure shows the result of the test, there are three It can be shown that, TV test can not only reflect the JPEG compress history of the fake unaltered image, but also estimate the original quality factor for the Stamm santiforensic modified image It could be proved that the TV detection could not discover the anti-forensic dither any more. It displays that the fake unaltered images which previously were JPEG image at the quality factor of 30, 50 70 respectively. As can be seen from the simulation result the total variation function with the recompressed quality factor are just the same with the true unaltered image What s more, the PSNR between the original JPEG image and image added with noise keeps a high level. This indicates the proposed framework can fool the forensic technology with a lowest cost We collect 50 uncompressed images and compressed the images at the 30, 50, 70 quality factor respectively. Through the anti-forensic operation by [9 r op os ed  f r am e w ork we detect the forensic result under the TV detection attack The test result can be seen from the Table 1 TABLE I THE FAKE UNALTERED IMAGES UNDER THE FORENSIC TEST In this paper, we proposed a counter forensic framework of image s JPEG compressed history. In order to remove the lossy compression trace, Some special probability distribution noise has been added into the JPEG image and the image became a lossless format image which just the same with true uncompressed image in statistics. However this kind of lossless image has lost some meaningful information of the image content, the anti-forensic noise could not restore the compression cost. So forensic 
006 
quality factor method detection rate PSNR 30 
26 LAM  27 TV_L1NORM  TV_L1NORM\(JPEG  28 29 30: FUNCTION ADD_NOISE\(x 31 32: FUNCTION QUALITY\(x 33 36: FUNCTION TV_L1NORM\(x 37 38: FUNCTION TV\(x,y 39:r 40: FUNCTION LAM\(x 41 
lam var diff origin wipe,q 0 output wipe return the added anti-forensic dither image by the method proposed h th e im age x q ual ity f act or return the image x JPEG compression quality factor return the image x s l1 norm of the spatial first-order derivatives eturn the image x TV denoise result by the method proposed th th e l am bda v alue y return calibrated lambda value by the method proposed in [1 the var i an ce x 
A Simulation lena.bmp B Conclusion 
912 
912 


researchers could analyze the unnatural noisy image that is recompressed JPEG image and find out the history trace of the original fake uncompressed image Figure 6 TV function of true lossless image, the anti-forensically modified JPEG compressed image by two methods original quality factor 30,50,70 Most anti-forensic methods always operate at the cost of image quality loss, and without th inking the image content. It is difficult to hide the process history of the tampering image while the hiding operation itself without being discovered for the interpolators. This paper countering the JPEG compression history detection at the lowest cost of the image quality, make the TV test invalid. However, how to find the optimal solution quantitatively in theory, this issue still needs study R EFERENCES 1 W S  L i n, S K T j o a, H V Z h ao  a nd K J R. L i u D ig ital  imag e  source coder forensics via intrinsic fingerprints," Trans. Info. For Sec., vol. 4, pp. 460-475, 2009 2 Z F a n a nd  R. L  de Q ue i r o z  I de nti f ica tio n o f  bi tm a p co m p r e s s i o n  history: JPEG detection and quantizer estimation," Image Processing IEEE Transactions on, vol. 12, pp. 230-235, 2003 3 H F a rid  D i g i t a l  I mag e Bal l i stic s fro m JPEG Q u an tiz at io n  A  Followup Study}," 2008 4 A Po p e scu  an d H  F a rid  Sta tis ti cal T o o l s fo r D i g ital F o re n s ics in  Information Hiding. vol. 3200, J. Fridrich, Ed., ed: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2005, pp. 128-147 5 T  Pevn y a n d J  F  F r i d ric h Det ec t i on of Do u b l e C o m p res s i on in JPEG Images for Applications in Steganography," IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, vol. 3, pp. 247-258, 2008 6 J. L u k a s a n d J. F r id r i c h Es tim at ion of Primary Quantization Matrix in Double Compressed JPEG Images," in Proc. of DFRWS Cleveland, OH, 2003 7 J  H e Z   L in, L   W a ng an d X  T a ng  D e te c ti ng do c to r e d J P E G  images via DCT coeffi cient analysis," the Proceedings of the 9th European conference on Computer Vision - Volume Part III, Graz Austria, 2006 8 Y S h ui m i ng Q  S u n a n d E   C C h a n g   D e te c ti ng D ig it a l  I m a g e Forgeries by Measuring Inconsistencies of Blocking Artifact," in Multimedia and Expo, 2007 IEEE International Conference on, 2007 pp. 12-15 9 M  C. S t amm S K T j o a, W S L i n an d K J. R L i u A nti f o r e nsics  of JPEG compression," in Acoustics Speech and Signal Processing ICASSP\010 IEEE International Conference on, 2010, pp. 16941697  S L a i a nd R  B  h m e  C o u nt eri n g C oun t e r F o ren s i c s  T h e C a s e of  JPEG Compression," in Information Hiding. vol. 6958, T. Filler, T Pevn˝, S. Craver, and A. Ker, Eds., ed: Springer Berlin Heidelberg 2011, pp. 285-298  G  Va len z i s e M  Ta gli a s a c ch i  an d S   Tu ba r o   R evea li n g th e Tr a c e s  of JPEG Compression Anti-Forensi cs," Information Forensics and Security, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 8, pp. 335-349, 2013  G  Va len z i s e M  T a gli a s a c c hi  an d S T u ba ro T h e c os t of J P E G  compression anti-forensics," in Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing \(ICASSP\011 IEEE International Conference on, 2011 pp. 1884-1887  L   I  R u d i n  S. Os h e r, an d E  F a t e m i  Non li n e a r t o ta l va ria t i on ba s e d noise removal algorithms," Physica D: Nonlinear Phenomena, vol. 60 pp. 259-268, 11/1/ 1992 14 H  F a rid  Ex p o s in g D i g i t a l F o r g e r ie s F r o m JPEG  G h o s ts Information Forensics and Security, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 4, pp 154-160, 2009 
913 
913 


groups to deploy their own versions and allows us to bene\002t from any community improvements to the software VII C ONCLUSIONS In this paper we have provided a case study of CiteSeer 037 and how it integrates data from across the Web and performs automatic extraction clustering entity linking and name disambiguation on that data Furthermore we have described how we share data code and services and some of the challenges and opportunities that have arisen from doing that All of these tasks are interesting in and of themselves from a research perspective however recently we have been faced with the pressure of not only supporting these sorts of operations but also the need to do so in scalable ways In this regard as CiteSeer 037 has continued to grow we have been faced with increasing pressure to be able to deal with the needs and demands of big data and the need to design algorithms systems and processes that are scalable Though not discussed in this paper the 002rst step in doing this has involved migrating CiteSeer 037 from a physical architecture to a virtual architecture This has the main bene\002t of allowing us to provision resources on demand in order to meet increasing requirements for processing power However in addition to this we see a number of other research opportunities in dealing with scholarly big data It was mentioned in Section III that we crawl between 50,000 and 100,000 PDFs per day of which about 40 are scholarly documents however we only ingest about 10,000 new documents per day and thus a bottleneck exists in our ingestion pipeline Research opportunities thus potentially exists in distributed ingestion Opportunities also exist in investigating new information extraction methods that can be applied to scholarly data such as extracting data from 002gures as previously mentioned This is one of the main bene\002ts of automated scholarly big data management systems since new extraction modules can easily be added As already mentioned though there are often errors in extraction thus there is the potential to identify new sources of information that can be integrated into CiteSeer 037 that can be used to improve the quality of automatically extracted data Furthermore the user corrections submitted through MyCiteSeerX provides a useful set of data that can be used to try and better understand where automatic extraction fails which may be bene\002cial for improving the extraction algorithms Lastly given the large number of hits that CiteSeer 037 receives per day we believe that there is an opportunity in analyzing access logs in order to determine how best to provision services and design algorithms For instance logs analysis can be used to gain insight into user requests and requirements improve ranking and determine which data should be cached A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This work is partially supported by the National Science Foundation R EFERENCES  E Archambault D Amyot P  Deschamps A Nicol L Rebout and G Roberge 223Proportion of Open Access Peer-Reviewed Papers at the European and World Levels 2004-2011,\224 European Commission DG Research  Innovation August 2013  H Han C Giles E Mana v oglu H Zha Z Zhang and E F ox 223 Automatic document metadata extraction using support vector machines,\224 in Proceedings of the 3rd ACM/IEEE-CS joint conference on Digital libraries  2003 pp 37\22648  M Lipinski K Y ao C Breitinger  J Beel and B Gipp 223Ev aluation of header metadata extraction approaches and tools for scienti\002c PDF documents,\224 Proceedings of the 13th ACM/IEEE-CS joint conference on Digital libraries JCDL 13  pp 385\226486 2013  C Caragea J W u A Ciobanu K W illiams H.-H Fernandez-Ramirez Juan Chen Z Wu and C L Giles 223CiteSeerX A Scholarly Big Dataset,\224 in 36th European Conference on Information Retrieval To Appear  2013  I Councill C Giles and M Kan 223P arsCit an Open-source CRF Reference String Parsing Package.\224 Proceedings of the Sixth International Language Resources and Evaluation LREC'08  2008  Y  Liu K Bai P  Mitra and C Giles 223T ableseer automatic table metadata extraction and searching in digital libraries,\224 Proceeding of the 7th annual international ACM/IEEE joint conference on Digital libraries JCDL 07  2007 pp 91\22610  S R Choudhury  P  Mitra A Kirk S Szep D Pelle grino S Jones and C L Giles 223Figure metadata extraction from digital documents,\224 in 12th International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition ICDAR  2013 pp 135\226139  S R Choudhury  S T uarob P  Mitra L Rokach A Kirk S Szep D Pellegrino S Jones and C L Giles 223A 002gure search engine architecture for a chemistry digital library,\224 in Proceedings of the 13th ACM/IEEE-CS joint conference on Digital libraries  ACM 2013 pp 369\226370  S Carman 223 AlgSeer An Architecture for Extraction Inde xing and Search of Algorithms in Scienti\002c Literature MSc Thesis The Pennsylvania State University  2013  M Khabsa P  T reeratpituk and C L Giles 223 Ackseer a repository and search engine for automatically extracted acknowledgments from digital libraries,\224 in Proceedings of the 12th ACM/IEEE-CS joint conference on Digital Libraries  ACM 2012 pp 185\226194  M Khabsa P  T reeratpituk and C L Giles 223Entity resolution using search engine results,\224 in Proceedings of the 21st ACM international conference on Information and knowledge management  ACM 2012 pp 2363\2262366  J Dean and S Ghema w at 223MapReduce 224 Communications of the ACM  vol 51 no 1 p 107 Jan 2008  J W u P  T ere go wda J Ram 264 021rezm P Mitra S Zheng and C L Giles 223The evolution of a crawling strategy for an academic document search engine whitelists and blacklists,\224 in Proceedings of the 3rd Annual ACM Web Science Conference WebSci 12  2012 pp 340\226343  K W illiams and C L Giles 223Near duplicate detection in an academic digital library,\224 in Proceedings of the 2013 ACM symposium on Document engineering DocEng 13  2013 pp 91\22694  X Lu S Kataria W  J Brouwer  J W ang P  Mitra and C L Giles 223Automated analysis of images in documents for intelligent document search\224 International Journal on Document Analysis and Recognition IJDAR  vol 12 no 2 p 65\22681 2009  S Carberry  S Elzer and S Demir  223Information graphics an untapped resource for digital libraries\224 in Proceedings of the 29th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval  2006 pp 581\226588  P  T reeratpituk and C L Giles 223Disambiguating authors in academic publications using random forests in Proceedings of the 2009 joint international conference on Digital libraries JCDL 09  2009 pp 39\226 48  D Lane y  2233D Data Management Controlling Data V olume V elocity  and Variety\224 Application Delivery Strategies  META Group Inc 2001  P  Larsen amd M v on Ins 223The rate of gro wth in scienti\002c publication and the decline in coverage provided by Science Citation Index\224 Scientometrics  vol 84 no 3 p 575\226603 2010 73 


   7 The team settled on an 1800W Hydrargyrum  Medium arc Iodide \(HMI; i.e. metal halide\ lamp system, with ballast and adjustable stand.  Figure 8 shows the scaled lamp spectrum over laid onto a 6000K blackbody spectrum 8  9  T he t o t a l p ur c ha s e p r i c e f o r t he  s ys t e m i s  1 1 k w i t h a  three week lead t ime  Selecting the Current  The amount of current required for a \221passing\222 test was the matter of some debate.  Ideally, the maximum panel current would be generated so as to meet the EPS 4 requirement by test.  However, the theatre lamp is not that prec ise; slight variations in warm up time, distance, and focus can produce large swings in panel current.  The lab experiments also showed that some cases can generate currents in excess of the design value.  To eliminate risk of hardware damage, the flight t est requires a minimum of 500mA generation, and a target of 80% of the manufacturer\222s LAPSS measurement 7  T hi s va l ue i s l a r ge e no ug h t o e xp o s e a n y  s ub s t a nt i a l  power losses in signal path, and to cause a failed string to clearly result in an out of fami ly measurement  Hardware and Personnel Safety  Thermal 227 In addition to safely de rating the current generation, several safety aspects required resolution prior to the first flight test.  Though the metal halide bulbs better approximate the sunlight spectrum, they still generate infrared.  Both the panel and surrounding flight hardware require real time monitoring to prevent thermal related damage.  Only 40% of th e LADEE panels carry embedded temperature sensors.  To maintain hardware safety, the test requires use of a calibrated, handheld thermal imager.  The specific imager used \(Fluke Ti25\ is essentially an infrared digital camera.  The entire panel can be moni tored and saved for offline analysis.  The test limit for panel temperature is 70\272 Celsius, driven by the mounting bushings.  This proved good for nominal safety measurements, but limited for precision use due to surface reflections  Contamination 227 LADEE is a contamination sensitive mission due to the presence of mass spectrometers and optical instruments.  All spacecraft activities occur in 10k clean tent, and instruments are continuously bagged and purged.  Theatre lamp systems are not necessarily design ed for a clean room environment.  The rental lamps see heavy usage, and often have peeling paint.  New lamps outgas substantially, and must be burned in prior to test in the clean tent     Figure 8:  Test La mp Spectrum  


Optics 227 Though the lamp is, roughly speaking, meant to simulate sunlight spectrum and intensity, most of the optical hardware on the spacecraft is not designed to look directly into the sun.  LADEE\222s body mount panels are r ight next to the payloads; for protection, all instruments were shielded with reflective blankets.  LADEE\222s star trackers can withstand sunlight, and did not require protection  Personnel Safety 227 Regarding personnel safety, precautions were necessary.  On e of the strengths of the metal halide bulb is less infrared and more UV; unfortunately human eyes are sensitive to UV radiation.  Further, the light reflects easily and can cause headaches even when personnel avoid looking at the bulb.  Fortunately, an in expensive, stock solution was available.  Most standard safety glasses meet the ANSI Z87.1 standard for UV protection.  Welding glasses also meet the standard, and often provide fitted wrap around protection.  To meet personnel safety, the project purchased a dozen glasses and required all personnel to wear them during test. [7  D eb r i ef s a n d p l acar d s s er v e t o  notify all staff   5  T EST R ESULTS  The first test occurred just after final observatory integration, and was straightforward to execute.  The test tim e was about four hours, and required three staff to operate.  The EPS 4 295W requirement was not met due to de rating the lamp.  Figures 9 and 10 are time series of all panel currents and temperature sensors during the test Figure 11 shows a typical \221ste p\222 current signature for each panel type.  Note the signature shows evidence that the lamp warm up persists beyond one minute.  All panels measured above the 0.5A requirement, with most between 70 75% of maximum.  Typical panel temperatures hovered around 45\272 Celsius \(Figure 12\, with the hottest at about 59\272 Celsius The test was considered a success, and LADEE Risk #87 was subsequently closed  LADEE project management was sufficiently happy with the test that it approved purchase of a new lamp system The test proved to be simple enough in execution that the test rig could be taken to the launch site for evaluation prior to encapsulation.  At t he final observatory test \(Figure 13 the team attempted verification of the 295W requirement Enough thermal margin was available to relax the generated current de rating from 25% to roughly 10%.  Recall that only one panel can be tested at a time; anal ysis combines superposition of results with the spacecraft rotation and orientation outlined in Figure 3.  The average observatory power generation meets the 295W requirement \(Table 4 Three sides of the spacecraft fell less than 10% short of the require ment.  However, the level of residual risk was considered appropriate for a Class D mission and no further testing was required  Table 4:  EPS 4 Closed by Test  Minimum Power  Maximum Power  Average Power  Requirement  270.9W  339.7W  310.4W  295W     Figure 9:  Solar Array Test Currents  


   9  Figure 10:  Solar Array Test Temperatures   Figure 11:  Typical Current Signature  Trapezoidal  Rectangular  


   10   Figure 12:  Infrared Image of a Panel during Test   Figure 13:  Final LADEE Test   6  M AINTENANCE   I NSPECTION   AND R EPAIR  Receiving Inspection  Beyond testing, the LADEE team used tried and true methods of visual inspection and record keeping from receipt through launch.  The panel vendor accompanied the initial delivery of hardware to NASA ARC and participated in an on site inspection, thereby do cumenting the initial state of the hardware.  Throughout during Integration and Test \(I&T\, the LADEE test team performed their own visual inspections of the hardware.  This best practice resulted in the discovery of two panels with minor damage  Launch Site Inspection  Following shipment to the launch facility \(NASA Wallops Flight Facility, Virginia\, the manufacturer performed an on site inspection and repair of the panels.  Roughly 15% of the array was found to have minor cracks and damage due to  handling \(Figure 14\.  During an extended stay at Wallops Island, the repair team was able to fix all affected panels with no issues \(Figure 15\.  The simplicity, portability, and ease of operation of the lamp test fixture made it easy to re evaluate all repaired panels prior to launch.  Note the inspections and final test were not part of the project\222s original \(observatory LAPSS test\ plan   Figure 14:  Damaged LADEE Solar Cell   Figure 15:  Cell Repair at the Launch Facility   7  M ISSION O PERATIONS  A ma jor assumption that enabled the entire risk mitigation process was the allocation of manufacturer\222s per panel LAPSS data for requirements verification, LADEE EPS modeling and mission operations tools.  Several factors can invalidate that assumption.  One obviously, is any damage and repair that could occur prior to launch.  Another is degradation; though LADEE is a short lifetime mission some level of radiation or micro meteorite damage will occur.  A final factor, shadowing, is less a function of the pan els themselves than the spacecraft geometry Protrusions in the spacecraft will tend to shadow portions of the array, and predicting that behavior can be extremely complex.  Neither the lamp test nor a LAPSS would completely account for shadowing.  All of  these factors feed into the need to continuously evaluate the health and performance of the solar array through mission operations  


   11 This would be relatively simple if the spacecraft\222s COTS avionics measured current from each panel, or even each switch.  Unfortunately this is not the case; only one measurement is made for the entire solar array system This design approach, while appropriate for a low complexity Class D system, is highly inconvenient for debugging any type of photovoltaic system failure   During Operational Readiness Training \(ORTs\, the LADEE EPS team developed a method to evaluate panel performance throughout the mission.  The approach illuminates the interdisciplinary nature and value of mission operations experience, even for the hardware designer.  In this case, the ORT campaign engendered collaboration between the EPS and Guidance, Navigation, and Control GNC\ teams that led to a solution.  The EPS team discovered that the GNC system design includes calculation and storage of the spacecraft sun vector as part of its attitude determination process.  As mentioned, the EPS subsystem records the solar array current and number of closed switches.  The EPS analysis tool simply combines the downlinked sun vector with the EPS data and a ge ometrical spacecraft model to determine an expected array current and the derived error \(Figure 16\.  Observation of the spacecraft over a combination of attitudes can be used to back out the behavior of individual panels, thereby updating the manufacture r\222s data   8  C ONCLUSIONS  The LADEE program applied true Class D risk tracking and mitigation techniques to address a major technical risk.  A project decision driven by resources, combined with redefinition of risk metrics, forced its staff to reconsider st andard practices and determine what was really necessary The process of test research development, execution, and risk closure took roughly 10 weeks \(Figure 5\.  The total cost was roughly 12% of the industry standard \(LAPSS solution in materials costs  and 12 labor hours per test Further, the theatre lamp approach is easy to train with and portable.  When combined with standard visual inspection it actually added value over the LAPSS approach in this application.  The test proved the system met powe r generation requirements 6 weeks prior to launch.  Post launch, interdisciplinary approaches proved useful to track performance of the array in flight.  Finally, the entire approach can be easily handed down to future missions   A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This work  was performed under the direction of Joseph Camisa, who served as the LADEE EPS Lead until his retirement in mid 2013.  Additional notes of appreciation go to the NASA GSFC Power Group \(Code 563\, the Emcore inspection and repair staff, and the LADEE Syst ems Engineering, Project Management, and Integration and Test teams for their participation in this work        Figure 16 226 Mission Operations Tool Overlays Expected and Actual Generated Array Current  


   12  R EFERENCES  1 H i n e B u t l er et  al   223 T h e L u n ar  A t m o s p h er e an d D u s t  Environment Explorer Mission,\224 in Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Aerospace Conference, Big Sky MT, 2010, pp. 1 9  2 N a tio n a l A e r o n a u tic s a n d  Space Administration, \(1993 Aug. 15 The Large Area Pulse Solar Simulator \(LAPSS Online  A v a ila b le  http://ntrs.nasa.gov   N a t i on a l A e r on a u t i c s a n d S pa c e A d m i n i s t r a t i on   2013   June 12 Risk Classi fication for NASA Payloads Online   NPR 8705.4, Change 2   O f f i c e of P r oc u r e m e n t  2012 A ug  10    Large Area Pulsed Solar Simulator 226 LAPSS 226 Testing  Online   Available http://fedbixopps.gov  5 Ca m i sa  J   2010, Aug. 12 Electrical and Power Systems Specification  Online S P E C 004.LADEE.EPSS Revision NC, Internal use only   E m c or e P h ot ov ol t a i c s  2012 J u n e 15   End Item Data Package for LADEE  Online  I nt e r na l u s e o nl y   F or g i on e  J    201 3  F e b 14 LADEE Solar Panel Continuity Test Online   I T 271.LADEE.SPCT Rev. A Internal use only   H u ds on J r   R i c h a r d D    223 I n f r a r e d R a di a t i on  224 i n Infrared System Engineering 1 st  ed., New York: Wiley, 1969, ch. 2 pp. 35 36  9  B ie b l  B   e t a l  2 0 09, Sept 8 ARRI M18 Spectral Data  Online  E m a il to a u th o r     B IOGRAPHY  Josh Forgione  received the B.S degree in E lectrical E ngineering from Virginia Tech in 2000.  He joined NASA in 2002, first at Goddard Spaceflight Center GSFC\ and then Ames Research Center in 2007.  Josh\222s hardware deliverables are currently flying on the Aquarius/SAC D satellite, the NASA ER 2, Global Hawk, and WB 57 aircraft, and multiple airborne instruments.  He joined LADEE in 2011 and currently serves as the LADEE Elect rical Power System lead through mission operations.  His interests span electronics and electrical systems, particularly on analog design for scientific instruments and power systems  Gilbert Kojima  was born in Honolulu, Hawaii, in 1949.  He received the  B.S and M.S degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Hawaii Honolulu, HI, in 1971 and 1974 respectively.  He is began his career at NASA, Ames Research Center \(ARC\, Moffett Field, CA as a physicist, then as an electrical/electronics e ngineer During his career at ARC, he has designed and developed numerous electronic instruments and major electrical control systems to support the diverse array of research and development activities at NASA.  One of his major career accomplishments was  as the principal tunnel conditions controls engineer for Unitary Modernization Project.  His interest includes anything new and challenging involving electrical/electronic design    Robert Hanel is a Systems Engineer at NASA Ames Research Center current ly working on the Lunar Atmospheric Dust Environment Explorer \(LADEE\ Mission Robert has 25 years of experience working instruments spacecraft systems, and mission designs for NASA scientific mission including work on Planetary Astrophysics, and Space Biology Missions. Robert has a M.S. and a B.S in Electrical Engineering from California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo   Mark Mallinson  began working at NASA Ames Research Center in 1988 and holds Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Mechan ical Engineering  Professional accomplishments include work on seven Space Shuttle missions three satellites, wind tunnels numerous aircraft and human rated test facilities  Areas of NASA experience include structural modeling, test verification  and an alysis, systems design, project management and systems engineering at the program and project levels  Mark has  held a number of systems engineering positions on the LADEE project including Risk Management Officer and manager of the project's Joint Confide nce Level \(JCL\ cost/risk/schedule statistical analysis    


                                   


                                              


                       


                   


                                                    


                    


                                           


                            


Transformational GovernmentóCo-Chairs: J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Introduction to the Transformational Government Minitrack 2252 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam B. Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Enacting Collaborative Electronic Government: Empirical Evidence and Lessons for Developing Countries 2253 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, CÈsar Renteria, and Luis F. Luna-Reyes The Role of Social Actors in the Sustainability of E-Government Implementation and Use Experience from Indonesian Regencies 2263 Nurdin Nurdin, Rosemary Stockdale, and Helana Scheepers Unveiling Barriers and Enablers of Risk Management in Interoperability Efforts 2273 Pernille Monstad R¯berg, Leif Skiftenes Flak, and Per Myrseth Electric Energy Systems TrackóCo-Chairs: Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Introduction to Electric Energy Systems Track 2283 Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Economics, Markets, and PolicyóChair: Tim Mount Introduction to Economics, Markets and Policy Minitrack 2284 Tim Mount Cost Allocation in Ancillary Service Markets 2285 Tobias Haring and Gˆran Andersson Electrical Energy Storage Systems: Technologiesí State-of-the-Art, Techno-economic Benefits and Applications Analysis 2295 P. Medina, A.W. Bizuayehu, J.P.S. Catal„o, E.M.G. Rodrigues, and J. Contreras Electricity Restructuring, Consumer Prices and the Cost of Capital: Lessons for the Modeling of Future Policy 2305 Leonard S. Hyman and Richard E. Schuler Barriers to Increasing the Role of Demand Resources in Electricity Markets 2314 Alberto J. Lamadrid, Tim Mount, Wooyoung Jeon, and Hao Lu Investigation of Non-zero Duality Gap Solutions to a Semidefinite Relaxation of the Optimal Power Flow Problem 2325 Daniel K. Molzahn, Bernard C. Lesieutre, and Christopher L. DeMarco Measurement of Energy Market Inefficiencies in the Coordination of Natural Gas & Power 2335 Richard D. Tabors and Seabron Adamson Robust Optimization Based Economic Dispatch for Managing System Ramp Requirement 2344 Anupam A. Thatte, Xu Andy Sun, and Le Xie Stochastic Optimal Power Flow with Uncertain Reserves from Demand Response 2353 Maria Vrakopoulou, Johanna L. Mathieu, and Gˆran Andersson The Effects of Residential Energy Efficiency on Electric Demand Response Programs 2363 Ward Jewell 
xxv 


Integrating Distributed and Renewable ResourcesóChair: Seth Blumsack Introduction to Integrating Distributed and Renewable Resources Minitrack 2373 Seth Blumsack, David P. Chassin, and J. Charles Smith Correcting Optimal Transmission Switching for AC Power Flows 2374 Clayton Barrows, Seth Blumsack, and Paul Hines Effects of PV on Conventional Generation 2380 Rajatha Bhat, Miroslav Begovic, Insu Kim, and John Crittenden Fast Regulation Service Provision via Aggregation of Thermostatically Controlled Loads 2388 Borhan M. Sanandaji, He Hao, and Kameshwar Poolla Self-Balancing Distributed Energy in Power Grids: An Architecture Based on Autonomic Computing 2398 Jennifer Perez, Jessica Diaz, Carlos Vidal, Daniel Rodriguez, and Diego Fern·ndez Storage Sizing and Placement through Operational and Uncertainty-Aware Simulations 2408 Krishnamurthy Dvijotham, Misha Chertkov, and Scott Backhaus The Impact of Variable Market Price on Optimal Control of Wind-Hydro Storage System in Kenya 2417 Maureen Murage, Judith B. Cardell, June Lukuyu, and C. Lindsay Anderson Variable Generation, Reserves, Flexibility and Policy Interactions 2426 James Ryan, Erik Ela, Damian Flynn, and Mark OíMalley Monitoring, Control, and ProtectionóChair: Joe Eto Introduction to the Monitoring, Control, and Protection Minitrack 2435 Joe Eto A Real-Time Scheme for Validation of an Auto-regressive Time Series Model for Power System Ambient Inter-area Mode Estimation 2436 Gurudatha K. Pai and John W. Pierre Automatic Generation Control and Its Implementation in Real Time 2444 Dimitra Apostolopoulou, Peter W. Sauer, and Alejandro D. DomÌnguez-Garcia Congestion Measures for Organized Markets in the U.S 2453 Emily Fisher and Joseph H. Eto Grid Modernization: Seamless Integration of Protection, Optimization and Control 2463 A.P. Sakis Meliopoulos, George J. Cokkinides, Renke Huang, and Paul Myrda Modal Energy Trending for Ringdown Analysis in Power Systems Using Synchrophasors 2475 Zaid Tashman and Vaithianathan ìManiî Venkatasubramanian Phasor Measurement Unit Placement for Identifying Power Line Outages in Wide-Area Transmission System Monitoring 2483 Hao Zhu and Yiyu Shi Reliable Implementation of Robust Adaptive Topology Control 2493 M. Kezunovic, T. Popovic, G. Gurrala, P. Dehghanian, A. Esmaeilian, and M. Tasdighi 
xxvi 


Security-Constrained MIP Formulation of Topology Control Using Loss-Adjusted Shift Factors 2503 Evgeniy A. Goldis, Michael C. Caramanis, C. Russ Philbrick, Aleksandr M. Rudkevich and Pablo A. Ruiz Resilient NetworksóChair: Jeff Dagle Introduction to Resilient Networks Minitrack 2510 Jeff Dagle GPU-Accelerated Solutions to Optimal Power Flow Problems 2511 Logan Rakai and William Rosehart Statistical Properties and Classification of N-2 Contingencies in Large Scale Power Grids 2517 P.A. Kaplunovich and K.S. Turitsyn The Impact of Size and Inhomogeneity on Power Transmission Network Complex System Dynamics 2527 B.A. Carreras, D.E. Newman, and I. Dobson Thread Group Multithreading: Accelerating the Computation of an Agent-Based Power System Modeling and Simulation ToolóC GridLAB-D 2536 Shuangshuang Jin and David P. Chassin Information Technology in Healthcare TrackóCo-Chairs: William G. Chismar and Tom Horan Introduction to the Information Technology in Healthcare Track 2546 William G. Chismar and Thomas A. Horan Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical InformaticsóCo-Chairs: Hesham Ali and Kate Dempsey Introduction to Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical Informatics Minitrack 2547 Hesham H. Ali and Kathryn M. Dempsey SNP-SNP Interaction Using Gauss Chaotic Map Particle Swarm Optimization to Detect Susceptibility to Breast Cancer 2548 Li-Yeh Chuang, Yu-Da Lin, Hsueh-Wei Chang, and Cheng-Hong Yang Application of a Hybrid Text Mining Approach to the Study of Suicidal Behavior in a Large Population 2555 Kenric W. Hammond and Ryan J. Laundry Learning Predictive Models from Integrated Healthcare Data: Extending Pattern-Based and Generative Models to Capture Temporal and Cross-Attribute Dependencies 2562 Rui Henriques and Cl·udia Antunes Global Health IT Strategies and ApplicationsóCo-Chairs: Joseph Tan, Sarah L. Patrick, and Michael Dohan Introduction to Global Health IT Strategies and Applications Minitrack 2570 Joseph Tan, Michael S. Dohan, and Sarah Patrick Medical Document Classification Based on MeSH 2571 Abdullah Muhammad Alghoson Mobile Personal Health Records: Research Agenda for Applications in Global Health 2576 Michael S. Dohan, Mohamed Abouzahra, and Joseph Tan 
xxvii 


HCI and Consumer Health InformaticsóCo-Chairs: Richard Burkhard, Ann Fruhling, and Soussan Djamasbi Introduction to HCI and Consumer Health Informatics Minitrack 2586 Ann Fruhling, Rich Burkhard, and Soussan Djamasbi Alignment of Concerns: A Design Rationale for Patient Participation in eHealth 2587 Tariq Andersen, J¯rgen Bansler, Finn Kensing, Jonas Moll, and Karen Dam Nielsen Determinants of Vertical and Horizontal Online Health Information Behavior 2597 Hye-Jin Paek and Thomas Hove Magic Mirror for Neurorehabilitation of People with Upper Limb Dysfunction Using Kinect 2607 Orlando Erazo, JosÈ A. Pino, Rosario Pino, Alfonso Asenjo, Carmen Fern·ndez, and Alfonso Asenjo Text Simplification Tools: Using Machine Learning to Discover Features that Identify Difficult Text 2616 David Kauchak, Obay Mouradi, Christopher Pentoney, and Gondy Leroy Towards a Cardiology/EHR Interaction Workflow Usability Evaluation Method 2626 Lisa A. Grabenbauer, Ann L. Fruhling, and John R. Windle Video Conference as a Tool to Enable Participation in Discharge PlanningóExperiences from Implementers about the Implementation Process 2636 Malin Hofflander, Lina Nilsson, Christel Borg, and Sara EriksÈn Incorporating an Evidence Base into mHealth Design and AnalysisóCo-Chairs: Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley Introduction to Evidence-Based Health Design and Analysis Minitrack 2644 Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley A Tailoring Algorithm to Optimize Behavior Change 2645 Janet Brigham, Harold S. Javitz, Ruth E. Krasnow, Lisa M. Jack, and Gary E. Swan Building an Evidence Base Using Qualitative Data for mHealth Development 2655 Beth Bock, Nancy Barnett, Rochelle Rosen, Kristen Walaska, Herpreet Thind, and Victoria Cobb Enabling Patient Information Handoff from Pre-hospital Transport Providers to Hospital Emergency Departments: Design-Science Approach to Field Testing 2665 Abdullah Murad, Benjamin Schooley, Thomas Horan, and Yousef Abed Mobile Medical Applications for Melanoma Risk Assessment: False Assurance or Valuable Tool 2675 Xavier Chadwick, Lois J. Loescher, Monika Janda, and H. Peter Soyer IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in HealthcareóCo-Chairs: Ton Spil, Cynthia LeRouge, Carla Wiggins, and Leigh Cellucci Introduction to IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in Healthcare Minitrack 2685 Leigh Cellucci, Cynthia LeRouge, Ton Spil, and Carla Wiggins A Framework to Improve Coordinated Action toward the Adoption and Implementation of Health Information Exchanges 2686 John C. Pendergrass and C. Ranganathan 
xxviii 


A Review of Health Information Technology Implementation Success Factors: Importance of Regulation and Finance 2693 Thi Thanh Hai Nguyen, Kaija Saranto, Tommi Tapanainen, and Diana Ishmatova Adoption of Assistive Technologies for Aged Care: A Realist Review of Recent Studies 2706 Suchada Vichitvanichphong, Amir Talaei-Khoei, Donald Kerr, and Amir Hossein Ghapanchi Adoption of Electronic Health Record System: Multiple Theoretical Perspectives 2716 Qiwei Gan and Qing Cao Effects of Online Advertising Strategy on Attitude towards Healthcare Service 2725 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong EMR Adoption among Office Based Physicians and Practices: Impact of Peer-to-Peer Interactions, Peer Support and Online Forums 2733 Priya Nambisan Environment versus Partnering Experience: An Exploration of Chinese Healthcare IT Manager Attitudes toward Innovation of Services 2741 Dominic Thomas, Yurong Yao, and Xitong Guo Examining the Social Influence on Information Technology Sustained Use in a Community Health System: A Hierarchical Bayesian Learning Method Analysis 2751 Haijing Hao, Rema Padman, Baohong Sun, and Rahul Telang Exploring User Acceptance of a Text-Message Based Health Intervention 2759 Maya Corneille, Lemuria Carter, Naomi M. Hall-Byers, Trenette Clark, and Sinead Younge Factors Explaining Physiciansí Acceptance of Electronic Health Records 2768 Katharina Steininger, Barbara Stiglbauer, Bernd Baumgartner, and Bernhard Engleder Finding Value While Planning a Statewide Health Information Exchange 2778 Dana Edberg, Lynn OíMara, and Jeanne Wendel General Causality Orientations and the Adoption of Integrated Personal Health Records Systems: A Latent Class Analysis with Distal Outcomes 2788 Vahid Assadi and Khaled Hassanein Governance of Open Source Electronic Health Record Projects: A Successful Case of a Hybrid Model 2798 Placide Poba-Nzaou, Josianne Marsan, Guy ParÈ, and Louis Raymond Investigating the Influence of Psychological Ownership and Resistance on Usage Intention among Physicians 2808 Tim Smith, Gerald Grant, and Alejandro Ramirez Personal Health Records Success: Why Google Health Failed and What Does that Mean for Microsoft HealthVault 2818 Ton Spil and Richard Klein Recognizing Patient Safety Importance through Instrument Validation on Physicians Assessment of an EHR 2828 Cherie Noteboom, Kathryn Dempsey, and Ann Fruhling Telepathology Implementation Challenges and Benefits: A Scoping Review 2838 Julien Meyer and Guy Par 
xxix 


The Use of Health Information Technology in Ambulatory Surgery Centers 2848 Carla Wiggins and Teri S. Peterson Understanding Stakeholder Behavior in Nationwide Electronic Health Infrastructure Implementation 2857 Philipp Klˆcker IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare EnvironmentsóCo-Chairs: Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis and Patricia Oberndorf Introduction to IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare Environments Minitrack 2867 Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis, and Patricia Oberndorf A Business Process Management Approach to Perioperative Supplies/Instrument Inventory and Workflow 2868 Jim Ryan, Carmen Lewis, Barbara Doster, and Sandra Daily A Guiding Framework for Ontology Reuse in the Biomedical Domain 2878 Tejal Shah, Fethi Rabhi, Pradeep Ray, and Kerry Taylor A Neuro-fuzzy Approach to Bad Debt Recovery in Healthcare 2888 Donghui Shi, Jozef Zurada, and Jian Guan A Pervasive Mobile Assistance System for Health and Fitness Scenarios 2898 Andreas Emrich, Alexandra Theobalt, Frederik Leonhardt, Sˆnke Knoch, Dirk Werth and Peter Loos A Smartphone-Based System for Population-Scale Anonymized Public Health Data Collection and Intervention 2908 Andrew Clarke and Robert Steele Analyzing and Modeling of Medical Data on Distributed Computing Infrastructures 2918 Gabor Terstyanszky, Tamas Kiss, Vladimir Korkhov, and Silvia D. Olabarriaga ASeCS: Assistive Self-Care Software Architectures for Delivering Service in Care Homes 2928 Reza Shojanoori, Radmila Juric, Mahi Lohi, and Gabor Terstyanszky Automating the Integration of Clinical Studies into Medical Ontologies 2938 Mark Roantree, Jim OíDonoghue, Noel OíKelly, Martin van Boxtel, and Sebastian Kˆhler Bridging Electronic Health Record Access to the Cloud 2948 Brian Coats and Subrata Acharya Decision Support in Evaluating the Impacts of Mental Disorders on Work Ability 2958 Juha Kemppinen, Jukka Korpela, Kalle Elfvengren, Timo Salmisaari, and Jussi Polkko Factors of Access Control Management in Electronic Healthcare: The Patientsí Perspective 2967 Thomas Trojer, Basel Katt, T¸lay ÷zata, Ruth Breu, Patrick Mangesius, and Thomas Schabetsberger 
xxx 


Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for HealthcareóCo-Chairs: Freimut Bodendorf Nilmini Wickramasinghe, and Carolin Durst Introduction to Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for Healthcare Minitrack 2977 Freimut Bodendorf, Carolin Durst, and Nilmini Wickramasinghe A Scalable Services Framework for Modeling Service Exchange Networks 2978 Hossein Seif Zadeh, Don Lowe, and Ivan Gavanovich Information Security and Privacy of Patient-Centered Health IT Services: What Needs to Be Done 2984 Tobias Dehling and Ali Sunyaev Tackling Complexity in E-health with Actor-Network Theory 2994 Indrit Troshani and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Using Self-Regulation Theory to Inform Technology-Based Behavior Change Interventions 3004 Amr Soror and Fred Davis Internet and the Digital Economy TrackóCo-Chairs: Dave King and Alan Dennis Introduction to Internet and Digital Economy Track 3013 David King and Alan Dennis Customer Engagement and Webflow User ExperienceóCo-Chairs: Petri Parvinen, Maurits Kaptein and Harri Oinas-Kukkoken Introduction to Customer Engagement and Webflow User Experience Minitrack 3014 Petri Parvinen, Harri Oinas-Kukkonen, and Maurits Kaptein Designing Flow Experience on the Web: A Grounded Theory of Online Shopping Flow 3015 Rolf Mahnke Does Gamification Work?óA Literature Review of Empirical Studies on Gamification 3025 Juho Hamari, Jonna Koivisto, and Harri Sarsa Exploring the Effects of Information Processing Perceptions on Consumersí Website Advice Continuance Intention 3035 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong Flow or No Flow? A Qualitative Study of Health Behavior Change Support System 3044 Pasi Karppinen, Tuomas Alah‰iv‰l‰, Terhi Jokelainen, Anna-Maria Ker‰nen, Tuire Salonurmi and Harri Oinas-Kukkonen Practical Findings from Applying Innovative Design Usability Evaluation Technologies for Mockups of Web Applications 3054 Luis Rivero, Marcos Kalinowski, and Tayana Conte Electronic MarketingóCo-Chairs: Bruce Weinberg, Ajit Kambil, and Arnold Kamis Introduction to Electronic Marketing Minitrack 3064 Bruce D. Weinberg, Arnold Kamis, and Ajit Kambil 
xxxi 


Customer Loyalty to C2C Online Shopping Platforms: An Exploration of the Role of Customer Engagement 3065 Christy M.K. Cheung, Xiabing Zheng, and Matthew K.O. Lee Digital and Social Media in Pro Sports: Analysis of the 2013 UEFA Top Four 3073 Marlen Jurisch, Helmut Krcmar, Hand J. Scholl, Kai Wang, Yuan Wang, Grant Woods Donghe Xu, and Yaxing Yao Effects of Attribute Framing Varying with the Elaboration in Online Shopping: An Eye-Tracking Approach 3083 Shu-Fei Yang and Hsin-Hui Lin Paid Search: Modeling Rank Dependent Behavior 3093 Chris K. Anderson and Ming Cheng Real-Time Adaptation of Influence Strategies in Online Selling 3100 Maurits Kaptein and Petri Parvinen Running and ChasingóThe Competition between Paid Search Marketing and Search Engine Optimization 3110 Kai Li, Mei Lin, Zhangxi Lin, and Bo Xing The Happiness Premium: The Impact of Emotion on Individualsí Willingness to Pay in Online Auctions 3120 Lingyao \(Ivy Understanding Competition Using Big Consumer Search Data 3129 Daniel M. Ringel and Bernd Skiera Why Arenít the Stars Aligned? An Analysis of Online Review Content and Star Ratings 3139 Susan M. Mudambi, David Schuff, and Zhewei Zhang Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy ResearchóCo-Chairs: Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston and Anthony Vance Introduction to Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy Research Minitrack 3148 Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston, and Anthony Vance A Longitudinal Study of Information Privacy on Mobile Devices 3149 Mark J. Keith, Jeffry S. Babb, and Paul Benjamin Lowry A Longitudinal Study to Determine Non-technical Deterrence Effects of Severity and Communication of Internet Use Policy for Reducing Employee Internet Abuse 3159 Morgan Shepherd, Roberto Mejias, and Gary Klein Assessing Sunk Cost Effect on Employeesí Intentions to Violate Information Security Policies in Organizations 3169 Miranda Kajtazi, Burcu Bulgurcu, Hasan Cavusoglu, and Izak Benbasat Factors Affecting Perceptions of Privacy Breach among Smartphone Application Users 3178 Stanislav Mamonov and Raquel Benbunan-Fich Improving Compliance with Password Guidelines: How User Perceptions of Passwords and Security Threats Affect Compliance with Guidelines 3188 Florence Mwagwabi, Tanya McGill, and Michael Dixon 
xxxii 


Location Based Services and Information Privacy Concerns among Literate and Semi-literate Users 3198 Adrian Z.Y. Tan, Wen Yong Chua, and Klarissa T.T. Chang Rethinking the Information Security Risk Practices: A Critical Social Theory Perspective 3207 Devinder Thapa and Dan Harnesk Short-Time Non-work-related Computing and Creative Performance 3215 Jungwon Kuem and Mikko Siponen The Effect of Providing Visualizations in Privacy Policies on Trust in Data Privacy and Security 3224 Jˆrg Becker, Marcel Heddier, Ayten ÷ks¸z, and Ralf Knackstedt Why Individuals Commit Information Security Violations: Neural Correlates of Decision Processes and Self-Control 3234 Qing Hu, Robert West, Laura Smarandescu, and Zachary Yaple Innovation and the Digital EconomyóCo-Chairs: Christophe Vetterli and Walter Brenner Introduction to Innovation and the Digital Economy Minitrack 3244 Walter Brenner and Christophe Vetterli Innovate on PurposeóFactors Contributing to Innovation in IT Outsourcing 3245 Anna-Luise Boehm, Bjoern Michalik, Nikolaus Schmidt, and Dirk Basten Strategic Capabilities of Mass Customization Based E-Commerce: Construct Development and Empirical Test 3255 Frank Piller, Thorsten Harzer, Christoph Ihl, and Fabrizio Salvador Open Movements: FLOSS, Open Contents, Open Access and Open CommunitiesóCo-Chairs: Wolfgang Bein, Clinton Jeffery, and Vandana Singh Introduction to Open Movements Minitrack 3265 Wolfgang Bein and Clinton Jeffery Forge++: The Changing Landscape of FLOSS Development 3266 Megan Squire Itís Not Only about Writing Code: An Investigation of the Notion of Citizenship Behaviors in the Context of Free/Libre/Open Source Software Communities 3276 Kevin Daniel AndrÈ Carillo, Sid Huff, and Brenda Chawner Paid vs. Volunteer Work in Open Source 3286 Dirk Riehle, Philipp Riemer, Carsten Kolassa, and Michael Schmidt Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on SocietyóCo-Chairs: Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia and Fernando Beltr·n Introduction to Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on Society Minitrack 3296 Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia, and Fernando Beltr·n An Application of UTAUT2 on Social Recommender Systems: Incorporating Social Information for Performance Expectancy 3297 Oliver Oechslein, Marvin Fleischmann, and Thomas Hess 
xxxiii 


Diffusion and Acceptance of Cloud Computing in SMEs: Towards a Valence Model of Relevant Factors 3307 Mark Stieninger and Dietmar Nedbal Information Technology Availability and Use in the United States: A Multivariate and Geospatial Analysis by State 3317 James B. Pick, Avijit Sarkar, and Jeremy Johnson Multi-casting in Mountainous Regions of Developing Countries: Analysis through ICT Institutions, and Capabilities Perspectives 3327 Julian M. Bass and Devinder Thapa Tactile Experiences: User Interpretations and Meaning with Tablets 3337 Efpraxia D. Zamani, George M. Giaglis, and Athanasia Pouloudi Triggering Intention to Use to Actual UseóEmpirical Evidence from Self-Service Checkout SCO 3347 Esko Penttinen, Tapani Rinta-Kahila, Mikko Rˆnkkˆ, and Timo Saarinen Knowledge Systems TrackóCo-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Murray Jennex Introduction to the Knowledge Systems Track 3356 Murray Jennex and David T. Croasdell Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of BeliefsóCo-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Introduction to the Minitrack on Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of Beliefs 3357 David Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Cultural Identity Restoration and Purposive Website Design: A Hermeneutic Study of the Chickasaw and Klamath Tribes 3358 Amber G. Young and Shaila M. Miranda Deaf Culture and Sign Language Writing SystemóA Database for a New Approach to Writing System Recognition Technology 3368 Cayley Guimar„es, Jeferson F. Guardezi, Luis Eduardo Oliveira, and Sueli Fernandes Indigenous Knowledge Sharing in Sarawak: A System-Level View and Its Implications for the Cultural Heritage Sector 3378 Rashidah Bolhassan, Jocelyn Cranefield, and Dan Dorner Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge SystemsóCo-Chairs: Stefan Smolnik and Timo K‰kˆl Introduction to Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge Systems Minitrack 3389 Stefan Smolnik and Timo K‰kˆl Conceptual Modeling for Mobile Maintenance: The ComVantage Case 3390 Robert Andrei Buchmann Formal Aspects of Enterprise Modeling Methods: A Comparison Framework 3400 Domenik Bork and Hans-Georg Fill 
xxxiv 


Quality Measures for Documentation of Best Practices 3410 Meshari M.S. Alwazae, Erik Perjons, and Harald Kjellin From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems ResearchóCo-Chairs Kevin Lee Elder, Alan Litchfield, and Andrew Urbaczewski Introduction to the Minitrack From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems Research 3420 Alan Litchfield and Andrew Urbaczewski Transforming Practice Using Theoretical Framing to Improve Organizational Processes 3421 Jordan Eschler, Shrikant Palkar, and Hazel Taylor Knowledge Management and SecurityóCo-Chairs: Alexandra Durcikova and Murray Jennex Introduction to Knowledge Management and Security Minitrack 3431 Alexandra Durcikova and Murray E. Jennex Designing Effective Knowledge Transfer Practices to Improve IS Security Awareness and Compliance 3432 Tonia Sannicolas-Rocca, Benjamin Schooley, and Janine L. Spears Genre-Based Assessment of Information and Knowledge Security Risks 3442 Ali Mohammad Padyab, Tero P‰iv‰rinta, and Dan Harnesk Integrating IS Security with Knowledge Management: Are We Doing Enough to Thwart the Persistent Threat 3452 Murray Jennex and Alexandra Durcikova Knowledge EconomicsóCo-Chairs: Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Introduction to Knowledge Economics Minitrack 3460 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki The Contours of Crowd Capability 3461 John Prpi and Prashant Shukla The Evolution of Knowledge Economics through the Course of Time: An Analysis of the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS 3471 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Visualisation of Knowledge Mapping for Information Systems Evaluation: A Manufacturing Context 3478 Amir Sharif, Muhammad Mustafa Kamal, and Zahir Irani Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and ExchangeóCo-Chairs: K.D. Joshi, Mark Nissen and Lynne Cooper Introduction to Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and Exchange Minitrack 3488 K.D. Joshi, Mark E. Nissen, and Lynne Cooper A Social Capital Perspective to Understand Individual Contribution of Social Support in Healthcare Virtual Support Communities 3489 Kuang-Yuan Huang and Indushobha Chengalur-Smith 
xxxv 


Creation of Need Knowledge in Organizations: An Abductive Framework 3499 Alexander Kaiser, Birgit Fordinal, and Florian Kragulj Error Occurrence: Successful versus Unsuccessful Unlearning in Individuals 3509 Julee H. Hafner, Timothy J. Ellis, and William Hafner Individualsí Interaction with Organizational Knowledge under Innovative and Affective Team Climates: A Multilevel Approach to Knowledge Adoption and Transformation 3515 Jinyoung Min, Junyeong Lee, Sunghan Ryu, and Heeseok Lee Information Quality: The Importance of Context and Trade-Offs 3525 Anna L. McNab and D. Alan Ladd Sustainable Value and Generativity in the Ecological Metadata Language \(EML Toward New Knowledge and Investigations 3533 Ben Li Towards a Knowledge-Based Framework for Enterprise Content Management 3543 Thang Le Dinh, Tim A. Rickenberg, Hans-Georg Fill, and Michael H. Breitner Within-Team Variation of Shared Knowledge Structures: A Business Performance Study 3553 Ronald Freeze and Pamela Schmidt Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity ManagementóCo-Chairs: Suzanne Zyngier, Danny Samson, and Marianne Gloet Introduction to Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity Management Minitrack 3563 Suzanne Zyngier, Marianne Gleot, and Danny Samson A Framework for Positioning and Assessing Innovation Capability from an Organizational Perspective 3564 Lilibeth RodrÌguez, Jessica DÌaz, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer PÈrez, and AgustÌn Yag¸e Managing Knowledge and Innovation for Performance 3574 Marianne Gloet and Danny Samson Organizational Ambidexterity Building via Strategic Learning and Business Learning 3584 Yan Mengling, Yu Yan, and Dong Xiaoying Things to Maintain or Change: The Importance of Critical Territory in Post-acquisition Integration Boundary Issues 3594 Dongcheol Heo and Heeseok Lee Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance MeasurementsóCo-Chairs: Murray Jennex Stefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Introduction to Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance Measurements Minitrack 3604 Murray E. Jennex, Stefan Smolnik, and David T. Croasdell Enhancing the Motivation, Opportunity, and Ability of Knowledge Workers to Participate in Knowledge Exchange 3605 Kelly J. Fadel and Alexandra Durcikova 
xxxvi 


Knowledge Management Success in Practice 3615 Murray E. Jennex, Sefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Profile in Leadership: Adding Definition to Leadership as a Component of KMS Success 3625 Vincent Scovetta and Timothy J. Ellis Shedding Light on the Impact Dimension of Information Systems Success: A Synthesis of the Literature 3635 Andrea Herbst, Nils Urbach, and Jan vom Brocke The Relationship between  KM Strategies and IT Applications in SMEs 3645 Naief Azyabi, Julie Fisher, Kerry Tanner, and Shijia Gao Organizational Systems and Technology TrackóChair: Hugh Watson Introduction to Organizational Systems and Technology Track 3655 Hugh J. Watson Advances in Design Research for Information SystemsóCo-Chairs: Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer and Omar El Sawy Introduction to Advances in Design Research for Information Systems Minitrack 3656 Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer, and Omar El Sawy A Prototype for Information-Dense IT Project Risk Reporting: An Action Design Research Approach 3657 Martina Beer, Marco C. Meier, Benjamin Mosig, and Florian Probst Activity-Based Costing as a Design Science Artifact 3667 Philip Huysmans and Peter De Bruyn An Information System Design Product Theory for the Abstract Class of Integrated Requirements and Delivery Management Systems 3677 Yikun Lu and Timo K‰kˆl Introducing a Game Approach Towards IS Requirements Specification 3687 Mika Yasuoka, Kyoichi Kadoya, and Takashi Niwa Logic for Accumulation of Design Science Research Theory 3697 Jan Holmstrˆm, Tuure Tunanen, and Jouni Kauremaa Towards a Design Theory for Trustworthy Information Systems 3707 Leslie J. Waguespack, David J. Yates, and William T. Schiano Using Entropyís Justificatory Knowledge for a Business Process Design Theory 3717 Peter De Bruyn, Philip Huysmans, Gilles Oorts, Herwig Mannaert, and Jan Verelst Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big DataóCo-Chairs: Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Introduction to Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big Data Minitrack 3727 Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Social Media Analytics and Business Value: A Theoretical Framework and Case Study 3728 Nargiza Bekmamedova and Graeme Shanks 
xxxvii 


Structuring Collaborative Business Intelligence: A Literature Review 3738 Jens Kaufmann and Peter Chamoni Think Big with Big Data: Identifying Suitable Big Data Strategies in Corporate Environments 3748 Katharina Ebner, Thilo B¸hnen, and Nils Urbach User Acceptance of Business Intelligence \(BI Social Influence, and Situational Constraints 3758 Tom E. Yoon, Biswadip Ghosh, and Bong-Keun Jeong Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and ChallengesóCo-Chairs: Frank Armour and Steve Kaisler Introduction to Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and Challenges Minitrack 3767 Frank Armour and Stephen Kaisler Business Process Modeling Language for Performance Evaluation 3768 Azeem Lodhi, Veit Kˆppen, Stefan Wind, Gunter Saake, and Klaus Turowski Dynamics of Cloud-Based Software as a Service in Small Communities of Complex Organizations 3778 Jenny Leonard Enterprise Architecture Practice and Organizational Agility: An Exploratory Study 3788 Terje Fallmyr and Bendik Bygstad EVOLIS Framework: A Method to Study Information Systems Evolution Records 3798 Alexandre MÈtrailler and Thibault Estier Green Business Process ManagementóA Definition and Research Framework 3808 Nicky Opitz, Henning Kr¸p, and Lutz M. Kolbe Optimizing the Performance of Automated Business Processes Executed on Virtualized Infrastructure 3818 Christian Janiesch, Ingo Weber, Jˆrn Kuhlenkamp, and Michael Menzel Toward a Decision Model for Master Data Application Architecture 3827 Ehsan Baghi, Simon Schlosser, Verena Ebner, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Toward a Functional Reference Model for Business Rules Management 3837 Simon Schlosser, Ehsan Baghi, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Visualizing and Measuring Enterprise Application Architecture: An Exploratory Telecom Case 3847 Robert Lagerstrˆm, Carliss Baldwin, Alan MacCormack, and Stephan Aier Business Process IntelligenceóCo-Chairs: Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar Introduction to Business Process Intelligence Minitrack 3857 Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar A Case Study on Analyzing Inter-organizational Business Processes from EDI Messages Using Physical Activity Mining 3858 Robert Engel and R.P. Jagadeesh Chandra Bose Challenges of Social Business Process Management 3868 Nicolas Pflanzl and Gottfried Vossen 
xxxviii 


Development of an Intelligent Maturity Model-Tool for Business Process Management 3878 Nico Krivograd, Peter Fettke, and Peter Loos Improving Structure: Logical Sequencing of Mined Process Models 3888 Michael Werner and Markus N¸ttgens Mining Knowledge Sharing Processes in Online Discussion Forums 3898 G. Alan Wang, Harry Jiannan Wang, Jiexun Li, and Weiguo Fan Digital Technologies and Organizational InnovationóCo-Chairs: Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen and Youngjin Yoo Introduction to Digital Technologies and Organizational Innovation Minitrack 3908 Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen, and Youngjin Yoo Architectural Characteristics of Digital Services Enabled by Embedded Technology: A Study on Remote Diagnostics Services 3909 Soumitra Chowdhury, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria ≈kesson Business Models of Developer Platforms in the Telecommunications IndustryóAn Explorative Case Study Analysis 3919 Hannes Kuebel, Felix Limbach, and Ruediger Zarnekow Computer Aided Business Model Design: Analysis of Key Features Adopted by Users 3929 Boris Fritscher and Yves Pigneur IT Capability Configurations for Innovation: An Empirical Study of Industrial SMEs 3939 Louis Raymond, Sylvestre Uwizeyemungu, Bruno Fabi, and JosÈe St-Pierre Structural and Behavioral Fit in Software Sourcing Alignment 3949 Marko Nˆhren, Armin Heinzl, and Thomas Kude Succeeding with Building Information Modeling: A Case Study of BIM Diffusion in a Healthcare Construction Project 3959 Christoph Merschbrock and Bj¯rn Erik Munkvold Emerging Issues Facing the Computing WorkforceóCo-Chairs: Cynthia Riemenschneider and Deborah J Armstrong Introduction to Emerging Issues Facing the Computing Workforce Minitrack 3969 Cynthia K. Riemenschneider and Deborah J. Armstrong IT Professionals and Their Psychological Contract in the IT Profession 3970 RenÈ Moquin and Cindy K. Riemenschneider The Role of Voice in Retention of IT Workers: Paving the Higher Road 3980 Andrea J. Hester, Jo Ellen Moore, and Susan E. Yager Toward an Understanding of Job Satisfaction on Agile Teams: Agile Development as Work Redesign 3993 John F. Tripp and Cynthia K. Riemenschneider What Do We Know about FLOSS Developersí Attraction, Retention, and Commitment? A Literature Review 4003 Andreas Schilling 
xxxix 


Why IS after All? An Explorative Analysis of Professionalsí Letters of Study Motivation 4013 Steffen Illig, Sven Laumer, Christian Maier, and Tim Weitzel Enterprise System Integration: Issues and AnswersóCo-Chairs: Marinos Themistocleous, Gail Corbitt and Paulo Rupino da Cunha Introduction to Enterprise System Integration: Issues and Answers Minitrack 4023 Gail Corbitt, Marinos Themistocleous, and Paulo Rupino Da Cunha Coping with Requirements UncertaintyóA Case Study of an Enterprise-Wide Record Management System 4024 Bjoern Michalik, Marcus Keutel, and Werner Mellis Strategic Alignment of Enterprise Systems and Business Strategies under Systems and Bivariate Approaches 4034 Nazim Taskin, Jacques Verville, and Tayfun Keskin The Impact Mechanism of Organizational Culture on ERP Assimilation: A Multi-case Study 4044 Yuanyuan Guo, Yuqiang Feng, and Chaoyou Wang Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and SocietyóCo-Chairs: Eric Clemons, Rob Kauffman, and Tom Weber Introduction to Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and Society Minitrack 4054 Eric K. Clemons, Robert J. Kauffman, and Thomas A. Weber How Can Substitution and Complementarity Effects Be Leveraged for Broadband Internet Services Strategy 4055 Gwangjae Jung, Youngsoo Kim, and Robert J. Kauffman How Should Carriage Disputes in Digital Media Be Addressed 4064 Frank MacCrory and Shivendu Shivendu Incentive Issues and Solution Mechanisms for Knowledge Transfer with Enterprise 2.0 Technologies: A Game-Theoretic Approach 4074 Xianjun Geng, Lihui Lin, and Andrew B. Whinston Investigations into Consumers Preferences Concerning Privacy: An Initial Step towards the Development of Modern and Consistent Privacy Protections around the Globe 4083 Eric K. Clemons, Josh Wilson, and Fujie Jin IT Investments and Firm Stock Market Value: The Mediating Role of Stock Analysts 4093 Xueming Luo, Bin Gu, and Cheng Zhang News Processing during Speculative Bubbles: Evidence from the Oil Market 4103 Stefan Feuerriegel, Max W. Lampe, and Dirk Neumann Product Versus Non-product Oriented Social Media Platforms: Online Consumer Opinion Composition and Evolution 4113 Jianxiong Huang, Waifong Boh, and Kim Huat Goh The Role of Disseminative Capacity in HIT Adoption: An Empirical Analysis 4123 Debabrata Dey, Atanu Lahiri, and Gang Peng Collaborative Housing and the Intermediation of Moral Hazard 4133 Thomas A. Weber 
xl 


Elimination by Aspects in Electronic CommerceóEvidence from Online Marketplace and Implications for Empirical Model Specification 4142 Mohan Wang, Bin Gu, and Qiang Ye Evaluating Electronic Market Designs: The Effects of Competitive Arousal and Social Facilitation on Electronic Group Buying 4148 Martin Yuecheng Yu, Karl R. Lang, and Alex Pelaez Information and Information Systems in Crisis ResponseóCo-Chairs: Dorothy E. Leidner, Anouck Adrot and Eric W.T. Ngai Introduction to Information and Information Systems in Crisis Response Minitrack 4158 Dorothy E. Leidner and Anouck Adrot Designing an Optimized Alert System Based on Geospatial Location Data 4159 Kimberly Zeitz, Randy Marchany, and Joseph Tront Semantic Representations of Actors and Resource Allocation through Reasoning in Humanitarian Crises 4169 Aladdin Shamoug, Radmila Juric, and Shamimabi Paurobally Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System DesignóCo-Chairs: Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Introduction to Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System Design Minitrack 4179 Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Do Competitive Environments Have an Effect on Managerial Decision Making? An Empirical Investigation of the Newsvendor Problem 4180 Tong Wu and Abraham Seidmann From Bits to Atoms: 3D Printing in the Context of Supply Chain Strategies 4190 Henrik J. Nyman and Peter Sarlin Greening the Service Selection in Cloud Computing: The Case of Federated ERP Solutions 4200 Holger Schrˆdl and Paulina Simkin IT Outsourcing: An IS Perspective 4210 Stefan Bensch, Ralph-Josef Andris, Christian Gahm, and Axel Tuma Quantitative Case Study: Use of Pharmacy Patient Information Systems to Improve Operational Efficiency 4220 Gregory Dobson, David Tilson, Vera Tilson, and Curtis E. Haas Relational Capital and Performance: Assessing the Mediating Role of Supply Chain Agility and the Moderating Role of Environmental Contexts 4229 Zhao Cai, Hefu Liu, Qian Huang, Liang Liang, and Xiao-Liang Shen Teleophthalmology for Diabetic Patients: Saving Vision through IT 4239 Balaraman Rajan, Abraham Seidmann, and Rajeev Ramchandran 
xli 


Information Technology for DevelopmentóCo-Chairs: Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James Pick Introduction to Information Technology for Development Minitrack 4244 Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James B. Pick Achieving Development Outcomes through Technology Interventions in a Nonprofit Organization 4245 Mehruz Kamal Aligning IT Capabilities with the Information Requirements of International SMEs: Information Processing Theory Revisited 4254 Vincent Dutot, FranÁois Bergeron, and Louis Raymond Steering Institutionalization through Institutional Work: The Case of an eProcurement System in Indonesian Local Government 4264 Fathul Wahid and Maung K. Sein IT and Project ManagementóCo-Chairs: Sue Newell, Jacky Swan, and Joseph Weiss Introduction to IT and Project Management Minitrack 4275 Joseph Weiss, Jacky Swan, and Sue Newell Explaining Emergence and Consequences of Specific Formal Controls in IS OutsourcingóA Process-View 4276 Thomas L. Huber, Thomas A. Fischer, Laurie Kirsch, and Jens Dibbern Exploring the Constituents of Benefits Management: Identifying Factors Necessary for the Successful Realization of Value of Information Technology 4286 Kunal Mohan, Frederik Ahlemann, and Jessica Braun Is a Challenged Project One of the Final Outcomes for an IT Project 4296 Umar A. Altahtooh and Margaret W. Emsley Reducing I.T. Project Management Failures: Early Empirical Results 4305 Gezinus J. Hidding and John M. Nicholas Rethinking Communication in IT Project Management 4315 Judy McKay, Peter Marshall, and Nick Grainger Risk Management in Video Game Development Projects 4325 Marc Schmlaz, Aimee Finn, and Hazel Taylor IT Governance and Its MechanismsóChair: Wim Van Grembergen Introduction to IT Governance and Its Mechanisms Minitrack 4335 Wim Van Grembergen A Nomological Network Analysis of Research on Information Security Management Systems 4336 Fernando Parra and Laura L. Hall Does Inclusion of CIO in Top Management Team Impact Firm Performance? Evidence from a Long-Term Event Analysis 4346 Qing Hu, Ali Alper Yayla, and Yu Lei 
xlii 


E-Business IT Governance Revisited: An Attempt towards Outlining a Novel Bi-directional Business/IT Alignment in COBIT5 4356 Yannick Bartens, Frederik Schulte, and Stefan Vo Evolvement of Business-IT Alignment over Time: A Situated Change Perspective 4366 Heinz-Theo Wagner IT Governance Effectiveness and Its Antecedents: An Empirical Examination in Brazilian Firms 4376 Guilherme Lerch Lunardi, Antonio Carlos G. MaÁada, and Jo„o Luiz Becker IT Governance Patterns in the Portuguese Financial Industry 4386 Ruben Pereira, Rafael Almeida, and Miguel Mira da Silva Middle Management and Information Systems Strategy: The Role of Awareness and Involvement 4396 Dorothy E. Leidner and Michael Milovich Jr On the Need for Evolvability Assessment in Value Management 4406 Kim Maes, Peter De Bruyn, Gilles Oorts, and Philip Huysmans On the Relevance of the Modularity Concept for Understanding Outsourcing Risk Factors 4416 Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Shazdada Benazeer, Alain De Beuckelaer, Steven De Haes and Jan Verelst The Board and CIO: The IT Alignment Challenge 4426 Jacques Coertze and Rossouw Von Solms The Influence of Culture on IT Governance: A Literature Review 4436 Parisa Aasi, Lazar Rusu, and Shengnan Han Towards an Application Life-Cycle Approach for Selective Outsourcing 4446 Saskia Zelt, Alexander Andreas Neff, Jochen Wulf, Falk Uebernickel, and Walter Brenner Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information TechnologyóCo-Chairs: Michael Knight, Dawn Medlin and Dragos Vieru Introduction to Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information Technology Minitrack 4456 Michael B. Knight and B. Dawn Medlin A Nexus Analysis of Participation in Building an Information Infrastructure for the ìFuture School 4457 Halkola Eija, Iivari Netta, Kinnula Marianne, Kuure Leena, and Molin-Juustila Tonja Accelerating Economic Inequality and the Moral Responsibilities of Corporate-Employed Technologists 4467 Alan E. Singer How Coaligned Stakeholder Support Enhances End User's Perceived ERP Performance? The Pivotal Role of ERP Identity 4474 Jeffrey C.F. Tai, Kai Wang, and Hsin-Lu Chang Managing the Achievement of Strategic Organizational Goals through Projects: Understanding the Role of Management Practices 4484 Kunal Mohan and Frederik Ahlemann When Too Much Usage is Too Much: Exploring the Process of IT Addiction 4494 Isaac Vaghefi and Liette Lapointe 
xliii 


Young People and Smart Phones: An Empirical Study on Information Security 4504 Balbir S. Barn, Ravinder Barn, and Jo-Pei Tan Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical SystemsóCo-Chairs: Sirkka Jarvenpaa and Holly Lanham Introduction to Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical Systems Minitrack 4515 Sirkka L. Jarvenpaa and Holly J. Lanham Digital Visions vs. Product Practices: Understanding Tensions in Incumbent Manufacturing Firms 4516 Asif Akram, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria ≈kesson How Did It Happen? A Memetic Theory of Interorganizational Information Systems Emergence and Evolution 4526 Thayanan Phuaphanthong and Tung Bui Learning at the Boundaries: An Action Agenda for Business Analysts 4536 Rajiv Vashist, Judith McKay, and Peter Marshall Reimagining the Higher Education Experience as a Socially-Enabled Complex Adaptive System 4546 Munir Mandviwalla and David Schuff Solving the Puzzle of Crowdfunding: Where Technology Affordances and Institutional Entrepreneurship Collide 4556 Claire Ingram, Robin Teigland, and Emmanuelle Vaast Theorizing Modes of Open Source Software Development 4568 A. Lindberg, Xuan Xiao, and Kalle Lyytinen Trust in Network OrganizationsóA Literature Review on Emergent and Evolving Behavior in Network Organizations 4578 Marcel Morisse, Bettina Horlach, Wiebke Kappenberg, Jurate Petrikina, Florian Robel and Florian Steffens Theories in IS ResearchóCo-Chairs: Scott Schneberger, Dirk Hovorka, and Kai Larsen Introduction to Theories in IS Research Minitrack 4588 Scott L. Schneberger, Dirk S. Hovorka, and Kai R. Larsen Applications of the Viable Systems Model in IS ResearchóA Comprehensive Overview and Analysis 4589 Janek Richter and Dirk Basten Crafting Theory to Satisfy the Requirements of Explanation 4599 Allen S. Lee, Robert \(Bob Do Ontological Guidelines Improve Understandability of Conceptual Models? A Meta-analysis of Empirical Work 4609 Arash Saghafi and Yair Wand Identifying IT User Mindsets: Acceptance, Resistance and Ambivalence 4619 Liette Lapointe and Anne Beaudry 
xliv 


The Intellectual Core of the IS Field: A Systematic Exploration of Theories in Our Top Journals 4629 Daniel S. Soper, Ofir Turel, and Nitza Geri Theory Identity: A Machine-Learning Approach 4639 Kai R. Larsen, Dirk Hovorka, Jevin West, James Birt, James R. Pfaff, Trevor W. Chambers Zebula R. Sampedro, Nick Zager, and Bruce Vanstone Topics in Organizational Systems and TechnologyóCo-Chairs: Mark Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Introduction to Topics in Organizational Systems and Technology Minitrack 4649 Mark N. Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Antecedents of IT OutsourcingóA Longitudinal Approach 4650 Ralph Pfaller, Marina Fiedler, Arnold Picot, and Anja Tuschke Does IT Reputation Matter? Role of Senior Executives 4660 Jee-Hae Lim, Theophanis C. Stratopoulos, and Tony Wirjanto One Country, Three Types of CIOs: The Emergence of Technology Executives in China 4670 Mark W.S. Chun, Kai Sung, Charla Griffy-Brown, and Harvey Koeppel Paving the Way to a Productive RFID System: A Novel Action Research Based Study from Fashion Retail 4680 Thomas Buckel and FrÈdÈric Thiesse Perceptual Differences and Conflict in Packaged Software Acquisition: Results from a Multi-perspective Framing Analysis 4690 Stefan Harnisch, Jasmin Kaiser, and Peter Buxmann Process-Driven Data Quality ManagementóAn Application of the Combined Conceptual Life Cycle Model 4700 Paul Glowalla, Patryk Balazy, Dirk Basten, and Ali Sunyaev Software Technology TrackóCo-Chairs: Gul Agha and Rick Kazman Introduction to Software Technology Track 4710 Rick Kazman and Gul Agha Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and ProductsóChair: Dan Greening Introduction to Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and Products Minitrack 4711 Daniel R. Greening State-of-the-Art: A Systematic Literature Review on Agile Information Systems Development 4712 Markus Hummel Teams That Finish Early Accelerate Faster: A Pattern Language for High Performing Scrum Teams 4722 Jeff Sutherland, Neil Harrison, and Joel Riddle The Influence of Organizational Factors on Inter-team Knowledge Sharing Effectiveness in Agile Environments 4729 Viviane Santos, Alfredo Goldman, Hernesto Filho, DÈbora Martins, and Mariela CortÈs Theme-Based Product Release Planning: An Analytical Approach 4739 Nishant Agarwal, Reza Karimpour, and Guenther Ruhe 
xlv 


Toward an Understanding of Preference for Agile Software Development Methods from a Personality Theory Perspective 4749 David Bishop and Amit Deokar Agile and Lean Software EngineeringóCo-Chairs: Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Introduction to Agile and Lean Software Engineering Minitrack 4759 Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Building Evolvable Software Using Normalized Systems Theory: A Case Study 4760 Gilles Oorts, Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Herwig Mannaert, Jan Verelst, and Arco Oost Combining Lean Thinking and Agile Methods for Software Development: A Case Study of a Finnish Provider of Wireless Embedded Systems Detailed 4770 Pilar RodrÌguez, Jari Partanen, Pasi Kuvaja, and Markku Oivo Coordination in Large-Scale Agile Software Development: A Multiteam Systems Perspective 4780 Alexander Scheerer, Tobias Hildenbrand, and Thomas Kude Dual Application Model for Agile Software Engineering 4789 Ashley Aitken Exploring the Relationship between  Organizational Adoption Motives and the Tailoring of Agile Methods 4799 John F. Tripp and Deborah J. Armstrong Guiding Flexibility Investment in Agile Architecting 4807 Carlos Fern·ndez-S·nchez, Jessica DÌaz, Jennifer PÈrez, and Juan Garbajosa Towards the Model Driven Organization 4817 Tony Clark, Vinay Kulkarni, Balbir Barn, Robert France, Ulrich Frank, and Dan Turk Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and PracticeóCo-Chairs: Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Introduction to Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and Practice Minitrack 4827 Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Android Anti-forensics: Modifying CyanogenMod 4828 Karl-Johan Karlsson and William Bradley Glisson iOS Anti-forensics: How Can We Securely Conceal, Delete and Insert Data 4838 Christian DíOrazio, Aswami Ariffin, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Teaching Digital Forensics Techniques within Linux Environments 4848 Lucas McDaniel and Brian Hay Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software AssuranceóCo-Chairs: Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger and Richard George Introduction to Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software Assurance Minitrack 4857 Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger, and Richard George A Study of Ten Popular Android Mobile VoIP Applications: Are the Communications Encrypted 4858 Abdullah Azfar, Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo, and Lin Liu 
xlvi 


Evolving Secure Information Systems through Attack Simulation 4868 Elmar Kiesling, Andreas Ekelhart, Bernhard Grill, Christian Stummer, and Christine Strauss Patcher: An Online Service for Detecting, Viewing and Patching Web Application Vulnerabilities 4878 Fang Yu and Yi-Yang Tung REQcollect: Requirements Collection, Project Matching and Technology Transition 4887 Luanne Goldrich, Stephen Hamer, Martha McNeil, Thomas Longstaff, Robert Gatlin and Emmanuel Bello-Ogunu Signature Based Intrusion Detection for Zero-Day Attacks: \(Not 4895 Hannes Holm Towards a Holistic Understanding of Security Process: Formal Controls and Informal Relationships 4905 Max Soyref and Philip Seltsikas Utilizing Attack Graphs to Measure the Efficacy of Security Frameworks across Multiple Applications 4915 Francis J. Manning III and Frank J. Mitropoulos IS Education and TrainingóCo-Chairs: Dan Port and Gary Kessler Introduction to IS Education and Training Minitrack 4921 Daniel Port and Gary C. Kessler Un of MOOC-Like, Third-Party Online Courses 4922 James H. Melton, Robert E. Miller, and Anil Kumar A Proposed Curriculum in Cybersecurity Education Targeting Homeland Security Students 4932 Gary C. Kessler and James D. Ramsay Developing Faculty Expertise in Information Assurance through Case Studies and Hands-On Experiences 4938 Xiaohong Yuan, Kenneth Williams, Huiming Yu, Bei-Tseng Chu, Audrey Rorrer, Li Yang Kathy Winters, and Joseph Kizza Exploring the Feasibility of Conducting Software Training in a Peer Learning Context with the Aid of Student-Produced Screencasts 4946 Tai-Yin Chi, Lorne Olfman, and Frank Lin Investigating User Acceptance of a Screenshot-Based Interaction System in the Context of Advanced Computer Software Learning 4956 Travis K. Huang Learning and Law Enforcement: How Community-Based Teaching Facilitates Improved Information Systems 4966 Kaethe Bect, Scott Beamon, Edward Delp, and David Ebert Teaching Theories Underlying Agile Methods in a Systems Development Course 4970 Adarsh Kumar Kakar The Hidden Job Requirements for a Software Engineer 4979 Cristina Marinovici, Harold Kirkham, and Kevin Glass 
xlvii 


Secure Cloud ComputingóCo-Chairs: Bill Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin Introduction to Secure Cloud Computing Minitrack 4985 William J. Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin A Policy-Based Security Framework for Storage and Computation on Enterprise Data in the Cloud 4986 Sourya Joyee De and Asim K. Pal A Taxonomic Perspective on Certification Schemes: Development of a Taxonomy for Cloud Service Certification Criteria 4998 Stephan Schneider, Jens Lansing, Fangjian Gao, and Ali Sunyaev Analysis of Monolithic and Microkernel Architectures: Towards Secure Hypervisor Design 5008 Jordan Shropshire Cloud Computing Data ProtectionóA Literature Review and Analysis 5018 Florian Pfarr, Thomas Buckel, and Axel Winkelmann Securing KVM-Based Cloud Systems via Virtualization Introspection 5028 Sheng-Wei Lee and Fang Yu SLA Information Management through Dependency Digraphs: The Case of Cloud Data Services 5038 Katerina Stamou, Verena Kantere, Jean-Henry Morin, and Michael Georgiou Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and ManagementóCo-Chairs: Timo K‰kˆl‰ and Andrea Leitner Introduction to Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and Management Minitrack 5048 Timo K‰kˆl‰ and Andrea Leitner Analyzing Software Product Innovation Assessment by Using a Systematic Literature Review 5049 AgustÌn Yag¸e, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer PÈrez, and Jessica DÌaz Which Factors Affect Software-as-a-Service Selection the Most? A Study from the Customerís and the Vendorís Perspective 5059 Ariana Polyviou, Nancy Pouloudi, and Stamatia Rizou Software Security for Mobile PlatformsóCo-Chairs: Daniel Plakosh and Robert Seacord Introduction to Software Security for Mobile Platforms Minitrack 5069 Daniel Plakosh and Rocbert Seacord Enhancing User Privacy on Android Mobile Devices via Permissions Removal 5070 Quang Do, Ben Martini, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Malware Dynamic Recompilation 5080 SÈbastien Josse Pointer Ownership Model 5090 David Svoboda and Lutz Wrage 
xlviii 


Wireless NetworksóCo-Chairs: Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Introduction to Wireless Networks Minitrack 5100 Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala A Scalable Hidden-Markov Model Algorithm for Location-Based Services in WiMAX Networks 5101 John Roth, Murali Tummala, John McEachen, and James Scrofani Cell Range Expansion and Time Partitioning for Enhanced Inter-cell Interference Coordination in Heterogeneous Network 5109 Angmi Moon, Saransh Malik, Bora Kim, Hun Choi, Sooman Park, Cheolsung Kim, and Intae Hwang Novel MCS Based Relay Protocols for Throughput Optimization Using AMC in LTE-Advanced System 5114 Saransh Malik, Sangmi Moon, Bora Kim, Cheolhong Kim, Daejin Kim, and Intae Hwang Optimal Wireless Aerial Sensor Node Positioning for Randomly Deployed Planar Collaborative Beamforming 5122 Tan A. Ngo, Murali Tummala, and John C. McEachen The Possibility of Wireless Sensor Networks for Industrial Pipe Rack Safety Monitoring 5129 Jieun Jung and Byunghun Song Totally-Ordered, Reliable Multicast over Cognitive Radio Networks 5135 Matthew R. Tolson, Clark V. Dalton, Mark D. Silvius, Ethan S. Hennessey, Curtis C. Medve Jared J. Thompson, Kenneth M. Hopkinson, and Seif Azghandi Ubiquitous Interpersonal Communication over Ad-hoc Networks and the Internet 5144 Edoardo Biagioni Using Simulations to Study the Efficiency of Update Control Protocols 5154 Bernd Pfitzinger, Tommy Baumann, Dragan Macos, and Thomas Jest‰dt Vulnerability Analysis of LTE Location Services 5162 Mark Hofer, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Author Index 5167 
xlvix 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


