Richard K. Lomotey and Ralph Deters 
Department of Computer Science University of Saskatchewan Saskatoon, Canada richard.lomotey@usask.ca, deters@cs.usask.ca 
Abstract 
Towards Knowledge Discovery in Big Data 
Analytics-as-a-Service \(AaaS\ has become indispensable because it affords stakeholders to discover knowledge in Big Data. Previously, data stored in data warehouses follow some schema and standardization which leads to efficient data mining. However, the Big Data epoch has witnessed the rise of structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data; a trend that motivated enterprises to employ the NoSQL data storages to accommodate the high-dimensional data. Unfortunately, the existing data mining techniques which 
 
are designed for schema-oriented storages are non-applicable to the unstructured data style. Thus, the AaaS though still in its infancy, is gaining widespread attention for its ability to provide novel ways and opportunities to mine the heterogeneous data. In this paper, we discuss our AaaS tool that performs terms and topics extraction and organization from unstructured data sources such as NoSQL database s textual contents \(e.g websites\nd structured sources \(e.g. SQL\. The tool is built on methodologies such as tagging, filtering, association maps, and adaptable dictionary. The evaluation of the tool shows high accuracy in the mining process Keywords Tagging Filtering; Terms; Topics; Association 
 
Rules; Dictionary; Big Data; Unstructured Data Mining; Analytics as a Service I I NTRODUCTION There is high spectrum of data being generated and collected today at an unprecedented scale; this paradigm is receiving significant attention fr om diverse stakeholders in the academia, industry, and policy makers is being studied from three perspectives: big transaction data, big interaction data and big data processing In or de r  t o  sim p lif y  th e m e an in g of  big data and what it entails, we define the area within the concept of the model which is illustrated in Fig 1. Our 
5V 
described as çBig Dataé [1   Th e  big d at a f i el d w h ich is  
model is an extension on the previously defined 
3V 
Volume \(the era of size Variety \(the era of unstructured data 
model by the IBM researchers in [3  The amount of data being generated across enterprises and corporations is growing at an exponential rate. The social media forum, Twitter, alone generates 12 Terabytes of data daily [4  w ith sim ilar qu ant u m  of data or higher being generated from other forums. Thus, the consideration of data size is shifting from Terabytes to Zettabytes  The data is coming from multiple sources and comes in heterogeneous formats such as multimedia, text, blogs, emails, sensors, etc 
Variety Velocity Volume Veracity Value 
BIG DATA 
Furthermore, the data has no schema which is shifting the focus from structured and semi structured data storage to entirely unstructured data Unstructured Data Streaming Data Data in Zettabytes Noise Elimination Cost 
 The rate at which the data is being generated is very fast which has shifted our focus from data sets \(batch\to streaming data  While the data is being generated, collected and analyzed from different 
quarters, it is important to state that todayês data has some 
Velocity \(the era of streaming data Value \(the era of cost associated with data 
Fig. 1 The 5V model that currently defines Big Data 
costs. The data itself can be a çcommodityé that can be sold to 
third parties for revenue. Moreover, understanding the cost or value of the data can aid in budget decision making at estimating the storage cost of the data. For instance, is it worth it to spend 6 million US dollars on infrastructure cost to keep data that is worth 1 million dollars  There is the need to check the accuracy of the data by eliminating the noise through methodologies such as data pedigree and sanitization. This is to ensure data quality so that 
Veracity \(the era of data pollution that needs cleansing 
2014 IEEE 8th International Symposium on Service Oriented System Engineering 978-1-4799-3616-8/14 $31.00 © 2014 IEEE DOI 10.1109/SOSE.2014.25 181 


variety veracity Analytics-asa-Service \(AaaS 
In this paper, the focus is on the concept of   in such environments. Since the ever The heterogeneity in data \(i.e rises because todayês data economy 
a The data is represented in varying formats documents, multimedia, emails, blogs, websites, textual contents, etc b It is schema-less becaus e there is no standardization or constraints placed on content generation and storage c It is from diverse sour ces \(e.g., social media, data providers such as Sa lesforce.com,  mobile apps, sensors, etc d It requires multiple APIs to aggregate data from the multiple sources; and the APIs are not standardized nor have common Service Level Agreements \(SLAs A Analytics-as-a-Service \(AaaS 
decisions that are made from the collected data are accurate and effective which is the result of unstructured data; and how we can ensure growing data comes in multiple formats and there is no standardization from policy makers on data generation, the challenge that we face is how to effectively mine the data. This challenge is prevalent because existing data mining techniques have been designed for schema-oriented and structured data storages 5 is t h eref or e be c o m i n g a p opu la r  discipline which involves the studies of unstructured data mining. In the introductory work in  w e  pr opo sed  a n d designed a unique AaaS tool that aids enterprise consumers to perform topics and terms mining from unstructured data silos Specifically, we aim at NoSQL storages where little has been done on developing terms mining tools. Our proposed tool is also applicable to other textual contents such as tag-based files e.g., HTML, XML, etc.\ and non-tag based documents \(e.g PDF\. This paper details the design of the proposed AaaS framework and showcase a series of pilot tests to validate our design decisions. The results show high accuracy for the term and topic extraction process. Also we have made a significant progress in reducing the duration for mining the terms The remaining sections of the paper are organized as follows. Section II expounds on unstructured data and in Section III, the progress made at mining textual contents, the emergence of Analytics-as-a-Service \(AaaS\, and our research motivation. Section IV introduces our proposed AaaS tool from the architectural design and implementation perspectives. The evaluation of the tool is carried out in Section V and the paper concludes in Section VI II U NSTRUCTURED D ATA Variety cuts across several enterprises. Though it may appear that the data is in silos \(e.g., social media information vs. corporate data\there are new opportunities that can be created when all of these data can be analysed These opportunities are beneficial for end-users, enterprise consumers, services providers, and prosumers. For instance online social analytics tools can aid the security agencies to determine criminal communities while advertising agencies can re-align products and services towards more demanddriven audience based on social media analytics However, the potential opportunities that we seek and desire is hampered by the n ature of the data, which is unstructured. The data is unstructured means The above highlighted descriptions aided the data integration community to push for the adoption of NoSQL databases [6  T h u s  ente rp ris e s a r e em brac in g  N o SQ L  st or ag es since they support schema-less, semi-structured, and structured data storage. Moreover, some accommodate textual and file attachments \(e.g., CouchDB\. Also, there are some of the NoSQL storages that stores only files such as DropBox MEGA, Amazon S3, and so on. The NoSQL platforms that support actual data \(e.g., MongoDB, Google Bigdata, etc allow the users to store data in formats such as JSON, XML, or other textual formats More recently, NoSQL storages have also adopted graphing methodologies \(e.g., Google Knowledge Graph [7   I n  essence, graph-based NoSQL databases can be employed to build data storages in a way that can aid in simple queries as well as establishing relationship between the data without writing relational database queries. Relational databases rely on keys and join operations wh ich makes searching tedious in data silos. Further, most of the previously deployed NoSQL databases rely on MapReduce functions which cannot be shared but are specific to each NoSQL database. However graph databases allow direct access to the data source of interest without any join or MapReduce operation. Moreover graph databases are transactional and are optimized for crossrecord connections. At the moment, some NoSQL graph databases as listed in [8 r e Neo4 J  In f i n ite G r a p h   In f o Gr id   HyperGraphDB, GraphBase, and so on Despite the efforts being made to deploy NoSQL databases there are still challenges. It is important to note that while NoSQL storages have aided the accommodation of unstructured data, the analytics of the data is an entirely different issue The problem is that, these NoSQL databases are products of different vendors so their query styles vary. Moreover, in order to aggregate the data from all of these sources, a mashup service has to be deployed which presents the researcher with two problems. Firstly, multiple APIs has to be studied and secondly, the returned data from the individual data silos are in different structures [6  Fu rth e r th e  qu e r y i n g of th e in div i du al  data sources can be time consuming and computationally demanding These problems will be explained in detail when we discuss the motivation of our work. In the next section, we highlight the field of Analytics-as-a-Service and how this has become important in the era of big data III U NSTRUCTURED D ATA A NALYTICS IBM Research has identified AaaS as an area that can offer business value [5   T h is is  be cau s e A a aS is a b l e t o ai d in t h e  transformation of unstructured data into business creation ventures. In this regard, IBM pushed for the creation of an AaaS platform that can aid end-users and companies to submit 
182 


for the readerês better understanding 
B Open Issues C Unstructured Data Mining 1 Terms Extraction stock/N, market/N, annual/Adj, interest/N and rate/N N Adj 
their data \(in either structured or unstructured format\ for analytics purposes. This platform as depicted in Fig. 2 is meant to reduce the financial burden on companies from maintaining in-house data analysts; the same view is shared by EMC [9  As an on-going work, IBM has identified the following hurdles that must be overcome in order for the AaaS to materialize Definitions of Service Level Agreements, Quality of Service monitoring methodologies, pricing, unstructured data manageability, and business processes \(models Fig. 2 The Analytics-as-a-Service provisioning as proposed by IBM  Another major enterprise player in the AaaS platform services deployment is SAS [10 T h e A a aS s e rv i c e p r ov i d ed  by SAS is based on predi ctive analytics which enables customers to quickly access solutions to their business problems Sun et al. [11  pr o p o se an A aa S f r am e w o rk as  an extensi on  to a Software-as-a-Service \(SaaS\ that enables enterprises to access data analytics as services. While focusing on multitenancy, the authors pro pose an SLA customization methodology which supports multiple analytics capability demands of tenants. Their architecture details how the virtual servers are constructed to accept the data input from the users The servers that perform the actual analytics are referred to as scoring servers Deepak et al. [12 als o de tai l th e a r chit ectu ral desig n of  their proposed AaaS platform which is cloud-hosted. Users are facilitated to upload files and data over a web interface which is the means of interacting with the system. Uploaded files are pushed to the analytics engines which comprise SPSS, R, SAS Cluto, and WEKA. This type of AaaS platform requires technologies from other providers as well and the analyzed result is stored in data systems such as oracle, DB2, and file systems The ongoing works on AaaS are mainly driven by cloud services providers who have higher financial muscle to construct such facilities. Firstly, that means the users have to pay for their data to be analyzed. Secondly, this also means companies have to submit their data to the AaaS platform providers for the latter to do the analysis, which can lead to privacy issues espec ially when the two companies are product competitors Hence, as first step, we aim at offering an open source AaaS tool that can be adopted by companies to do their terms and topics extraction from their unstructured data sources. The idea is that, the proposed framework can be downloaded and either hosted internally on private servers or on a dedicated cloud platform \(e.g., Amazon EC2\ for the data extraction tasks However, the ability to deploy an AaaS tool requires deeper knowledge in textual mining methodologies. Thus, after reviewing over 400 works from both academic and industry research publications on methodologies and tools on textual mining, the next section gives a brief overview of the area. On the whole, most of the methodologies are based on Natural Language Processing \(NLP\which is inherited from Artificial Intelligence Linguistics, and On tological Semantics [13-15  Without data mining, we cannot deduce any meaning out of the high-dimensional data at our disposal. As already posited existing data mining techniques which are well-advanced have been designed to work with schema-oriented databases which are structured [1 Ho w ever   th ese ex istin g te chn iqu es a r e n o  longer relevant to the modern challenges of information extraction especially at the application level. To enhance the data mining process, scientist in both the academia and industry are beginning to explore the best methodologies that can aid in the unstructured data mining process; especially in the context of textual data mining As a result, we have witnessed some methodologies su ch as: Information Retrieval algorithms based on templates [1 A sso cia ti on R u les 1 8 1 9    Topic tracking and topic maps [2  Te rm cr aw lin g te r m s   2 D o cum ent Clu s te rin g   2 2  D o cum ent S u m m arizat i o n  2 H elm h o ltz S ea r ch  P r in ci ple   2 4   Reu sable Di cti on a r i es   a n d s o  o n  In Table I, the summary of the methodologies is presented Since our focus is on terms and topics extraction, these are discussed further  Terms extraction unlike topics publishing focuses on establishing a network of associative relationships between terms [2 A ty pic al exam pl e is th e p r es ence of  c o n cur re n t terms in a World Wide Web \(WWW\document. The main benefit of term mining is that, it optimizes the search space vector thereby reducing processing time [26-27   Ter m  crawling for example aims at indicating the relevance of information gathered in an unstructured document by showing the interdependencies between the terms The work by Feldman et al. [27  exten de d on th e  Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD\ by shifting from topic tracking and word tagging to term identification in unstructured documents. The authors push for term normalization based on lemmas with corresponding part-ofspeech tags such as where is a noun and is an adjective 
183 


TABLE I S UMMARIZED M ETHODOLOGIES OF U NSTRUCTURED D ATA M INING  Data Retrieval KDD Process Trend discovery in text, document or file Topic Recommendation Establish associative relationships between terms Organize documents into sub groups with closer identity Noise Filtering in Large Documents For Knowledge Collaboration and Sharing Long or short text, semantics and ontologies keywords Keywords Long or short sentences Keywords L exical chaining Keywords Data Documents Terms, Topics Documents Words Sentences Feature extraction Keyword extraction Lexical chaining Lemmas Parts-of Speech Feature extraction Lexical chaining Feature extraction Do cuments Structured or semi structured Visualization Summary report Topic linkages Visualization crawler depth Visualization Visualization Summery report Summary report Community data mining Tagging Normalization of data Tokenizing Entity detection Ontologies Semantics Linguistics Publish Subscribe TopicsAssociationsOccurrences Linguistic Preprocessing Term Generation Kmeans clustering Hierarchical clustering Document structure analysis Document classification Annotations Tagging Document Files, Database Document Files, Database Document, Files Databases T opics vector space Documents Databases Databases, Sets of documents Databases, Sets of documents Lack of research on Data Pedigree Applies varying approaches to different data sources E.g relational spatial, and transactional data stores Identification of Topics of interest may be challenging Community based so cross domain adoption is challenging Can be resource intensive therefore needs research on parallelization Needs research on Data Pedigree Lack of research on dictionary adaptation to new words A proposal for term extraction module is put across which is primarily responsible for the labeling of extracted terms from a particular textual document. Overall, the term extraction module performs Linguistic Preprocessing, Term Generation and Term Filtering. What is also important to highlight in the work of Feldman et al. [27 is th at  th e auth o r s p r ov id e a sc or e  test based on relevance in the document using the following techniques: Deviation-Based Approach 
Information Extraction Association Rules Topics Terms Document Clustering Document Summarization Re-Usable Dictionaries 
    
calculate the frequency of a term in the document based on the relative standard deviation; Statistical Significance Approach to test the significance of the relative frequency variation of a term and Information Retrieval Approach using the maximal term frequency inverse document frequency \(tf-idf\ to assign a score for information retrieval. The work further explores the option of building a taxonomy constructor based on terms. The use of taxonomy constructors facilitates the search for specified terms which have association rules in an optimal time rather than searching through an entire document There are other ways of using terms such as the conversion of terms into a vector space and calculating the cosine distance between the search terms [28   T h e i d e a is t o u n d e r st and t h e size of the cosine distance, the frequency of the search term and the document correspondent One of the areas that terms are dominant to a software process is Online Analytic Processing \(OLAP\pplications 21   Fu r t h e r m ore bas e d on  t e rm  occu r r enc es as cen t ra l ro ot a  star-like architecture can be established using the following child dependencies: time, loc ation, term, document, and category [29  I n  a st ar l ik e a r chite ctur e th e i d e a is t o  determine the occurrences of a specified term based on the listed dependencies Also, as the computing landscape is venturing into the adaptation of methodologies from related and non-related fields, term extraction can be a very optimal approach to perform some of the time consuming tasks. For example, there 
Goal Data Representation Natural Language Processing Output Techniques Search Space Evaluation metrics Similarity and relatedness of Documents sentences and keywords Similarity Mapping, Cooccurrence of features correlations Associations Similarity Sensitivity Specificity Frequency of terms Frequency variations Sensitivity Specificity Balanced Iterative Reducing and Clustering BIRCH Tr ansition and preceding matrix, Audit trail Word extensibility Challenges and Future Directions 
184 


usersê subscription to form a basis for the usersê interests     organizationês internal server or on a cloud platform. However 
2 Topics TAO D The Way Forward Analytics-as-a-Service \(AaaS Input Layer Data Source Request Parser 
user Search Criteria Request Parser 
is enough room to explore terms applicability to traceability readability of bugs, maintainability and so on. As an extension on Table I, terms extraction can be challenging due to linguistic issues. For instance, similar words in different languages can mean different thin gs and even similar written words in the same language can mean different things This problem is also present in topic mining scenarios Topics tracking is generally employed to recommend subjects of interest to a user. Most online subscription systems e.g., hotel booking, flight, news articles etc.\ are based on topics methodologies where keywords are extracted from 20 30   Base d on th ese k e y w o rd s a m e ch anism of g r ou pin g  t h e related keywords \(called Lexical Chaining\can be employed to extract subsequent published messages [20  Topic Maps \(ISO/IEC 13250:2003\ on the other hand focuses on the representation and knowledge interchangeability in a repository [20  To pi c  m a p s deal  w ith  th e f o ll ow in g  elements \(commonly referred to as as representations refers to the entities being referred to which are mainly names, events, applic ation component and modules etc graphical links between the topics of interest refers to the relevant linkages of the information to topics. Abramowicz et al. [20 r ese ar che d on t h e  automation of topic map creation and outline four procedures which can be adopted such as: subject recognition, information extraction and preparing, RDF modeling, and mapping RDF model into a topic map. The basic idea is that the information extraction is initialized after the topic of interest is identified Information Extraction at this point from the unstructured data source can be done by exploring other techniques such Natural Language Processing and Shallow Text Mining. RDF models are triples of the format subject \(e.g., resources\, property \(e.g property type of the subject\, and value \(e.g., URL\. RDF models label the corresponding objects to topics in a map and their occurrences and associations. However, mapping RDF model into a topic map has various processing procedures to follow which include One-time Processing, Repeated Processing, and Continuous Processing [20  From the findings in the background works, the next section discusses our designed Analytics-as-a-Service \(AaaS tool. The functional/research needs that separate our tool from others are to build an tool that Is easily configurable to extract topics and terms from NoSQL storages. As of the time of this work, we could not find any tool that does this except for the Hadoop platform Can extract topics and terms from structured data sources such as SQL Can extract topics and terms from textual and semistructured data sources e.g., HTML, RDF Can be elastic enough to perform topics and terms extraction from multiple data sources of different schema at the same time Organize the output for informative visualization The second and third points are not entirely new features to our work. There are existing tools that mine topics from structured data sources \(e.g., SQL\ and most of the initial works on textual mining focus on HTML \(e.g., Web crawlers However, building a modern AaaS tool should not only focus on unstructured data sources but should also accommodate structured data sources. More importantly, the tool should support any data source and style. And this is what we sought to achieve IV T HE A RCHITECTURAL D ESIGN OF THE A AA S The architectural design as graphically illustrated in Fig. 3 encompasses four major actors: the human users, the front-end the data sources, and the AaaS framework. The human interacts with the system through the  The input layer is the interface \(currently designed in HTML5\ that enhances interactivity between the user and the AaaS framework. Though it is designed in HTML5, it can be customized in any UI design when adopted as open source. The input layer which is part of the front-end component can be installed on any device \(devices with either heavy or light processing capability\ce it only affords the user the flexibility of interacting with the system On the input layer, the user is facilitated to perform two initial tasks selection and specification. The search criteria tell the system whether the user wants to perform the topics and terms mining based on certain specifications. A typical specification can be the extraction of topics which are related to some particular keywords; where related can mean keywords which are antonyms or synonyms to the specified topic. Users can also define their own specifications, which will be explained later Further, the user has to specify the data sources from where the data can be mined. A URL or relative path to the database\(s can be provided in this case Once the user s initial tasks \(i.e., in puts through selection and specification\ are completed, the information is parsed to the which is an interface of the AaaS. As suggested in earlier sections, the AaaS framework is considered as a back-end system and can be deployed on an we strongly recommend a powerful platform for hosting because the AaaS is responsible for the high computation and processing of the data mining tasks. The entire implementation of the AaaS is in Erlang [31 w h ich is a  p r og ramm in g environment that supports concurrency and inter-process communication. Since the AaaS framework acts as an application server, the is the network component that receives the information from the input layer and routes the request to the other AaaS components Currently, the request parser supports both WebSocket and HTTP connections 
002 002 002 002 002 
topics associations occurrences 
185 


component. The responsibilities of this component include the validation of the input information from the user interpretation of the requests, and the request categorization The user input can be invalidated for instance if the specified data source does not exist or file format is currently not supported or the specified path is wrong. Though currently not implemented, we want to perform other tasks in the future such as document clustering, file structure organization, etc. In that case, the artifact extraction definition component will be responsible for the categorization of the input request based on the data or document extraction needs of the user. When the request is validated, the artifact extraction definition component then interprets the request as topics extraction or terms extraction. The interpreted request is then sent to the layer The goal of the semantic engine layer is to pass the request through series of reviews that w ill improve the quality of the data mining result. In the current version of the AaaS, we treat as keywords that the user wants to extract from the data source. Typical cases of topics extraction can be looking for data source. The semantic engine will not have much to do in this case but to pass the topics for extraction at the next stage However extraction involves a lot more because terms consider a specified keyword plus possible dependency keywords for interpretation. For example, when the artifact therefore the mining process will have to consider the latter keywords as well. This latter requirement convinced us to design the terms extraction as an extension on the topics. The consideration of the latter keyword can be specified by the user as part of the specification process on the input layer or left for the AaaS layer to decide and later the user can refine the result In order to clearly explain the workings of the semantic engine to the reader we provide Table II as an example that we shall use to discuss the remaining sub-components necessarily need to understand what the word mean from the line. The first problem that arises here is the presence of semantic issues where the mining process can potentially en the user actually wants be a result with a lot of False Negatives. This will eventually affect the and of the result as we shall see later in the evaluation section So, when an artifact is validated and sent to the semantic engine, the latter considers that artifact as a This topic is then forwarded to the where the actual meaning 
artifacts such as çContracté, çEconomyé, çSportsé, etc. from a Contracté is specified, it can also mean çAgreement Assuming the keyword çContracté is the specified term, we userês perspective. In the English Language, çContracté can be synonymous to çAgreementé and the other words in Table II or can be synonymous to çAfflicté and the other words in similar return terms involving çAcquireé wh Agreementé. Even if we assume that the extracted terms should just return everything on çContracté, the outcome will 
Fig. 3 The architectural design of our Analytics-as-a-Service \(AaaS\ tool The requests are first routed to the 
Topics Terms accuracy specificity 
Semantic Engine Topic Parser Request Parser Search Criteria Search Criteria Association Rules Topics Mapping HTML/RDF Data Sources SQL API Interface Definitions Extracted Artifacts Tagging Filtering Output Layer Web Browser Mobile e.g Notebooks Tablets Dashboard  REST API SOAP API MAPREDUCE SQL QUERY TAG DEFINITIONS TEXT PARSER User   Input Layer Display 
Artifact Extraction Definition Semantic Engine Topic Topic Parser 
Thesaurus Dictionary 
Textual Content e.g PDF Artifact Extraction Definition Topics Terms Search Algorithm NoSQL Serializer Clustering Data JSON Search Criteria Visualization Topics Clustering Terms Clustering 
186 


  
Keywordé: çContract Synonymé: çAgreement 
Dictionary Thesaurus Bloom Filtering Linear/Random Search algorithm Parallel/Concurrency Search algorithm Pessimistic and Optimistic Search algorithms 
002 002 002 002 002 002 002 
Artifact Synonyms Antonyms 
Arrangement Disagreement Agreement Misunderstanding Compact Break-off Settlement Fired Pact Contract Acquire Give Afflict Indispose Develop Disorder The dictionary contains predefined artifact in English, their corresponding synonyms, and antonyms. However, another concern at this point is how to make the dictionary adaptive To achieve the adaptability of the dictionary, we build a separate lexical component which is the thesaurus Adaptability in our case means that the topics and terms process should be extended or expanded to other domains outside the English Language. For instance, in the medical domain there are jargons that are not in the English dictionary or there are medical specific lexicons. To make our AaaS framework as generic as possible, the thesaurus only need to be populated with the domain specific jargons such as the case of the medical domain Since the dictionary and thesaurus are both tabular, we need to establish relationship between the artifacts. This requires a network \(or graph\ of inter-connected words because, for each word, we need to know all other artifacts that are dependencies either as synonyms or antonyms. Here is where we define a component called 
can be çSettlementé as shown in Table II which means that ill have dependency such as çContracté. So, going 
of the artifact is defined in order to generate an enhanced result. The topic parser is also important for the minimization of the other tasks ahead such as data cleansing. The topic parser has two components which are the and the These two components are storages which are built in DETS \(a disk storage facility in Erlang\to keep a tabular structure as Table II TABLE II S AMPLE A RTIFACT Contract where words are linked to each other based on the relationship that exists between the words. The topics mapping component is a script running on a methodology. Considering the vast amount of data that can exist in the lexicon \(such as the thesaurus\, it will be time consuming to go through the entire table in search for the synonyms and antonyms. Another way to imagine this scenario is: an artifact will have a synonym and the same synonym can later be an artifact which means the previous artifact becomes a synonym. For example, an artifact artifact w through the thesaurus based on sequential indexing will generate a complexity of O\(n 2 Thus, the Bloom Filtering methodology is adapted to rather build pointers between the words. In that case, for every word, we can determine the dependency keywords through referencing After the determination of all dependencies through topics mapping, an is established where the user request is matched against the topics mapping. For example the following Association Rules can be defined \(there are lot more Association Rules that can be defined based on the corporate/enterprise domain Extract all terms based on the antonyms Extract all terms based on synonyms Extract terms based on a specific synonym only These rules are contained in a JSON script internally; for example, in the case of the third rule, the JSON will be as shown below The establishment of the Association Rule prepares the semantic engine for the extraction. The rule-based JSON file is then passed to the layer. The search algorithm determines wh ich methodology to apply when searching through the data sources. As an ongoing work and discussions with some of our research partners there are proposals for the following algorithms which are adapted from    This means the data sources should be searched sequentially but after the implementation, we found the methodology is slow and causes a lot of waiting queues This works by determining the number of data sources and applying the data extraction to all the data sources simultaneously. This aided us to reduce the waiting queue Though we have explored these options in other ongoing works, we have not implemen ted it in the current work It will be considered later. Optimistic search aids the system to specify only directories which should be searched while pessimistic search allows the specification of directories that should not be searched As discussions are advanced, other search algorithms can/will be considered The search algorithm specification activates the layer. Here is where the queries are generated, constructed, and issued for the specific data sources For instance, SQL query cannot be issued for a NoSQL specified database nor a Map/Reduce query for SQL database This means for every supported data store, the query style that is specific to that data source must be issued. In the current implementation, the following Application Programming 
Topics Mapping Association Rule Terms Search Algorithm API Interface Definition 
187 


odbc:start\(\             //to start the ODBC ok, Ref} = odbc:connect\("DSN=sql-bigserver; UID bigdata; PWD=conf           t o c onn ec t to th e  da taba s e  
002 002 002 
Normalization Grouping Integration Topic Clustering Terms Clustering Windows 7 System 32, 4.12 3.98 GHz, 16GB RAM, 1TB HDD Processor: Intel Xeon, CPU E5410 @ 2.33GHz, 2.41GHz, RAM: 1.70GB System 32-bit operating system 
Data Sources Extracted Artifacts Serializer Tagging Filtering Clustering Visualization 
Interfaces \(APIs\ are defined and fully functional. This is the part that is crucial to the developers because the understanding of the APIs is what will allow the customization of the queries for the specific mining task The REpresentational State Transfer \(REST API is defined for NoSQL databases that support clear semantic queries. These databases support HTTP operations such as GET \(to read data\ POST \(to create records\, PUT \(to update existing records\, and so on. Also, there are publicly available NoSQL service providers that expose their services end-point as REST. Examples are Amazon S3, etc The SOAP API support SOA-based data stores over Web services calls. The returned result for the SOAP API query is in XML format. The SOAP requests are all sent using the HTTP POST method. Amazon Services and most existing legacy services are running on the SOAP protocol The Map/Reduce API is employed to make the REST-based query much simplified on the AaaS. For example, Map/Reduce involves filtering and sorting for NoSQL systems such as Hadoop, CouchDB, etc. and this leads to processing workload. So, instead of delegating the Map/Reduce functionality to the data store to process, we allow the processing to be done by the AaaS. Thus, when the request reaches the data store, the only workload is the processing of the request \(i.e., the workload regarding the request construction is offloaded to the AaaS This is where queries are constructed for the structured and schema oriented databases such as the SQL. In the Erlang environment, the connection to the SQL is over ODBC as shown below This API is defined for tag-based data sources \(i.e., file databases\ such as XML, HTML, and RDF These styles of databases are described as semi-structured because though the content is textual, the texts are defined within specific tags. Thus, the text mining can be done by defining tags This API is designed for purely text-based files with no structure. Examples are PDF files, .DOC, etc. The Text Parser API considers the specified artifact \(i.e., Topic or Term\ and does scanning through th e file in order to read the occurrences of those artifacts The completion of the query construction opens the connection to the specified database on the layer This layer is not necessarily on the same environment as the AaaS framework. The data source can be on remote servers within the same organization, outside repositories, or on the same server as the AaaS. For every request that is issued by the specific API interface to the data source, a response is expected which is passed to the layer The extracted artifact layer is where the Knowledge Discovery in Database \(KDD\ process starts. The goal here is to determine existential evid ence of topic and terms relationship through the KDD process. The data which is returned from the data source through the API interface is passed to the component. There are cases where the returned data is from multiple API interfaces especially when the data mining process involves multiple data sources. Thus the Serializer is the first compon ent that receives the data and performs the following macro activities reducing the redundancy of the data and establishing relationship between the artifacts Organizing similar artifacts into categories and Merging the artifacts into a format that gives single dimensional overview of the search result After the Serializer is done is performed the data Tagging involves determining the sources of each data occurrences of specific artifacts, frequency of artifact occurrences etc. for statistic al purposes. Once the tagging process is complete, the data is passed to the component. Here is where the topics and terms are organized based on relevance. For instance, we can determine relevance based on the frequency of occurrences of terms from the tagging process; and only report results based on certain thresholds such as top 100 terms an d so on. The filtered data is then organized based on where the data is modelled in JSON format for easy passing. Depending on the data mining need as specified by the user, the JSON data is parsed as or to the layer. For instance, Fig. 4 gives a tag cloud visualization of from over 3 million HTML-based sources on the Web from North America. The visualization reports 42 most relevant measured relevance based on the rate of recurrence of those keywords from the various sites. Currently we are aiming at integrating our visualization with the InfoVis framework Results from the visualization layer are sent to the Output layer which is primarily the platform of choice that the user prefers to view the result. Currently, results can be viewed as a browser content, on tablet and notebooks, and as dashboard In the next section, we discuss some of our preliminary results after evaluating the AaaS tool V E VALUATION The AaaS framework is evaluated based on the quality of term mining from the various data sources. The accuracy of the terms being extracted is measured in the NoSQL, Web, and SQL environments. We deployed our framework on our Window-based system with the following specifications  We considered a training data s et of 30 million entries which is spread across 30 different NoSQL databases \(CouchDB\ with file attachments which are de ployed on an Amazon EC2 instance with the following specifications The 30 million medical related records are divided into 30 groups where 1 million records are 
terms extraction related to çPsychiatryé using our AaaS tool keywords that form part of the term çPsychiatryé. We 
REST API SOAP API MAPREDUCE SQL QUERY TAG DEFINITIONS TEXT PARSER 
188 


choice of a userês 
Linear Search Parallel Search Pessimistic Search Optimistic Search True Positive 94.80 94.27 87.21 88.07 False Positive 2.60 2.81 2.34 3.20 True Negative 100.00 100.00 97.28 96.56 False Negative 0.34 0.77 41.31 23.32 Precision 97.33 97.11 97.39 96.49 Recall \(Sensitivity 99.64 99.19 67.86 79.06 Specificity 97.47 97.27 97.65 96.79 Accuracy 98.51 98.19 80.87 87.44 F1 Score 98.47 98.14 79.98 86.91 TABLE IV A NALYZING THE E XTRACTED T ERMS FROM THE W EB Linear Search Parallel Search Pessimistic Search Optimistic Search True Positive 91.61 96.33 75.55 74.09 False Positive 5.23 8.34 6.85 5.89 True Negative 95.85 97.09 99.44 99.03 False Negative 4.79 5.23 24.86 28.45 Precision 94.60 92.03 91.69 92.64 Recall \(Sensitivity 95.03 94.85 75.24 72.25 Specificity 94.83 92.09 93.56 94.39 Accuracy 94.93 93.44 84.66 83.45 F1 Score 94.81 93.42 82.65 81.19 TABLE V A NALYZING THE E XTRACTED T ERMS FROM THE SQL Linear Search Parallel Search Pessimistic Search Optimistic Search True Positive 97.33 97.81 93.74 94.55 False Positive 1.06 1.01 0.40 0.20 True Negative 99.97 99.91 99.93 99.90 False Negative 0.01 0.01 0.11 0.11 Precision 98.92 98.98 99.58 99.79 Recall \(Sensitivity 99.99 99.99 99.88 99.88 Specificity 98.95 99.00 99.60 99.80 Accuracy 99.46 99.49 99.74 99.84 F1 Score 99.45 99.48 99.73 99.84 
stored in each CouchDB database.  This dataset is a validated data which is used in the experiments in [34  Th en  w e  crawled some medical information websites such as healthcare providers, facilities, locations, specializations, etc. from approximately 5000 websites. This information forms the basis of our training datasets in this experiment. It is important to state that the information collected is just for test purposes of our tool and not for any other reason By focusing on the various data sources, we perform the terms extraction based on the proposed mining algorithms such as Linear Search, Parallel Search, Pessimistic Search, and Optimistic Search. In Table III, we report the evaluation from the NoSQL databases. The Pessimistic Search and Optimistic Search are dependent on the user who is performing the experiments because the choice of selection is subjective. For instance, the data source not to be searched may be different from the choice of another user. From the result, the Pessimistic Search and the Optimistic Search shows high false negative because of the user selection. In cases where the user thinks there can be terms, that is not the case This also applies to the cases where the user thinks terms may not be found somewhere. The advantage of the two methodologies however is the ability to perform quick search when the user has an idea about the location of the specified term TABLE III A NALYZING THE E XTRACTED T ERMS FROM THE N O SQL 
189 


research in web intelligence, mining the 2nd International Conference on Web Intelligence, Mining and Semantics \(WIMS '12\. ACM, New York, NY, USA, , Article 0 , 5 pages. DOI=10.1145/2254129.2254131 http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2254129.2254131 3 P  C  Z I K O PO U L O S  C  E A T ON D d e R OOS T  DE UT SC H A N D G   Hill Companies 2012 https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/community/wikis/home?lang=en wiki/Big%20Data%20University/page/FREE%20ebook%20%20Understanding%20Big%20Data 4 http://www.information-management.com/newsletters/data-miningunstructured-big-data-youtube--10022781-1.html 5 Analytics-as-a-Service Platform http://researcher.ibm.com/researcher/view_project.php?id=3992 6 Data tutorial at Semtech 2012, Jun 07, 2012. Available http://www.slideshare.net/juansequeda/linked-data-tutorial-at-semtech2012 7 G oo gl e  K now le dg e G r aph A v ail a bl e   http://www.google.ca/insidesearch/features/search/knowledge.html 8 N oSQ L  h t tp  n os q l d at ab a s e org 9 E M C   rney to Big Data with Business Analyticsas-a http://www.emc.com/collateral/white-papers/h11259emc-accelerates-journey-big-data-ba-wp.pdf  Analytics as a Service http://www.sas.com/offices/europe/uk/resources/brochure/aaas_research _brief.pdf  X SUN B G AO  L  F A N  A ND W  A N   A C os t E ffec t i ve A p p r oa c h to Delivering Analytics as a Service," IEEE 19th International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS 2012\, vol., no., pp.512,519, 24-29 June 2012, doi: 10.1109/ICWS.2012.79 12 P. D EEPA K  P. M  D ES H PA N D E A N D  K  M U RT H Y Co n fig u ra b l e  and Extensible Multi-flows for Providing Analytics as a Service on the Cloud," 2012 Annual SRII Global Conference \(SRII\, , vol., no pp.1,10, 24-27 July 2012, doi: 10.1109/SRII.2012.11 13 F S  GH AR E evaluation of unstructured data: text mining versus natural language Technologies \(AICT\, 2011 5th International Conference on , vol., no pp.1-4, 12-14 Oct. 2011, doi: 10.1109/ICAICT.2011.6111017  performance Text Conference on Computer Systems and Technologies  S V. VI NC HUR KA R  A ND S  M  N I R K H I   of Emerging Technology and Advanced Engineering, \(ISSN 2250-2459 Volume 2, Issue 1, January 2012  Mine 2003\, pp. 10-17  Based Information Mining from July 1997  M  DE L GA DO M   M A R T  N B A U T I S T A   D S NC HE Z   A ND M   Detection and Discovery, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 2002 Volume 2447/2002, 175-186, DOI: 10.1007/3-540-45728-3_11 
evidently clear that çBig Dataé has come to stay. This is 
The Linear Search and Parallel Search however shows consistent result since the focus is on the entire specified data source. The false negative values are small and the true positive index is also high. An observation however is that, the false positive and false native results in the Linear Search also re-occur in the Parallel Search. This can be attributed to the fact that the Linear Search is the underlying methodology on which the Parallel Search is running In Table IV, the result from crawling some selected websites are shown. This websites are for health care providers. Using similar types of terms from the NoSQL, we perform similar searches on the Web. The accuracy index dropped because there were higher false positive and false values. This is more likely due to the fact that the web is wide with similar written terms but with different meanings. Since not all the keywords from the web are captured in the Dictionary/Thesaurus, most of the specified terms were mislabeled In Table V, we report the results from the search in the SQL database. The data here is a fraction of the NoSQL version. The results in the structured data source show very high accuracy in comparison to the rest of the data sources This is not because the proposed framework works better with structured data source but, because the data itself is very small in comparison to the rest. Further, we know where to find most of the terms we were looking for so narrowed our database choice in the case of the Pessimistic and Optimistic Search methodologies VI C ONCLUSION With the present direction of corporate transactions, it is because most traditional business transactions which use to be paper-based are all being digitized. Besides, user generated content across different spectrum of the enterprise landscape is increasing in volume at an exponential rate. While Big Data has its tremendous advantages, the fact that the data is heterogeneous \(i.e., variety\poses new challenges Previously, the data mining and knowledge discovery in database \(KDD\procedures were designed for schema-oriented databases. However, the data today is multifaceted and has no schema. Though the NoSQL databases have been proposed to accommodate the data, not many tools are available that performs data mining and analytics from such storages Our work details an Analytics-as-a Service \(AaaS\ tool that performs terms mining and analytics from multiple data sources. Currently, the following data sources are supported NoSQL \(e.g., document style storages such as CouchDB SQL, Tag/Flat file storage \(HTML, XML, RTF\, and Textual Documents \(e.g., PDF\ Furthermore, we conducted experiments using the various styles of storage such as NoSQL, Web, and SQL. The pilot testing shows an encouraging result especially from the NoSQL domain. Our future extension aims at incorporating learning and adaptability features. This will further facilitate the ability to do recommendations for users based on their term and topic mining requirements R EFERENCES  M R WI GA N A N D R   C L A R K E  B i g D a ta  s  B i g Uni nt e nd ed Consequences," Computer , vol.46, no.6, pp.46-53, June 2013, doi 10.1109/MC.2013.195 2 
R. AKERKAR, C. BADICA, AND C. B. BURDESCU, çDesiderata for and semanticsé. In Proceedings of LAPIS, çUnderstanding Big Data: Analytics for Enterprise Class Hadoop and Streaming Data,é Published by McGraw K. RUPANAGUNTA, D. ZAKKAM, AND H. RAO, çHow to Mine Unstructured Data,é Article in Information Management, June 29 2012 IBM Research Available J. SEQUEDA AND DANIEL P. MIRANKER, çLinked Data,é Linked EMC Accelerates Jou Service SAS Customer Experiences HCHOPOGH, AND Z. A. KHALIFELU, çAnalysis and processing,é Application of Information and Communication V. TUNALI, AND T. T. BILGIN, çPRETO: A High Mining Tool for Preprocessing Turkish Texts,é 2012 International Feature Extraction of Product from Customer Feedback through Blog,é International Journal D. KUONEN, çChallenges in Bioinformatics for Statistical Data rs,é Bulletin of the Swiss Statistical Society, Vol. 46 \(October J. Y. HSU, AND W. YIH, çTemplate HTML Documents,é American Association for Artificial Intelligence VILA, çMining Text Data: Special Features and Patterns,é Pattern 
190 


 ing: A Singapore, No. 2003116 , 2003 20 W  A BRA MO W I CZ T   K A C Z MA R E K  A N D  M K O W A L K I E W I C Z  Australasian Journal of Informati on Systems, Special Issue 2003/2004 Vol 11, No 1  Conference on Communication, Computing & Security \(ICCCS '11 ACM, New York, NY, USA, 397-402  Bioinformatics 2010, 11:549 doi:10.1186/1471-2105-11-549  text min Analytics for Noisy Unstructured Text Data \(AND '09\. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 107-114  Packard Development Company L.P  S G ODB O L E   I  B HAT T A C H A R YA   A  G UP T A  AND A  VE R M A   usable dictionary repositories for realIn Proceedings of the 19th ACM international conference on Information and knowledge management \(CIKM '10\. ACM, New York NY, USA, 1189-1198  R  F E L DM A N M  F R E S K O  H H I R S H Y A UM A NN O  Practical Aspects of Knowledge Management \(PAKM98\, Basel Switzerland, 29-30 Oct. 1998  R  F E L DM A N M  F R E S K O  Y KI N A R  Y  L I NDE L L  O  Principles of Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery \(PKDD'98  J  DESI-III Workshop Barcelona, Monday June 8, 2009  J  L E E  D G R OSSM A N  O F R I E DE R  A ND M  C  M C C A B E  Proc. of Information Technology: Coding and Computing, 2000 International Conference on , vol., no., pp.264-269, 2000  Intelligence, VOL. 1, NO. 1, AUGUST 2009  E r la n g Progra m i n g L a n gu a ge h t t p www  e rla n g org   R  K  L OM OT E Y AND R  DE T E RS Analytics-as-a-Service \(AaaS Tool for Unstructured Data Mining of the 2014 IEEE International Conference on Cloud Engineering \(IC2E 14\ pages: 6 March 10-14, 2014. Boston, Massachusetts, USA  R  K  L OM OT E Y A ND R  DE T E R S  RSenter: Tool for Topics and Terms Extraction from Unstructured Data Debris Proc. of the 2013 IEEE International Congress on Big Data \(BigData Congress 2013 pp:395-402, Santa Clara, California, 27 June 2 July 2013  R  K  L OM OT E Y A ND R  DE T E RS RSenter: Terms Mining Tool from Unstructured Data Sources To Appear in: International Journal of Business Process Integration and Management \(IJBPIM 
Q. ZHAO AND S. S. BHOWMICK, çAssociation Rule Min Survey,é Technical Report, CAIS, Nanyang Technological University Supporting Topic Map Creation Using Data Mining Techniques B. JANET, AND A. V. REDDY, çCube index for unstructured text analysis and mining,é In Proceedings of the 2011 International L. HAN, T. O. SUZEK, Y. WANG, AND S. H. BRYANT, çThe Text mining based PubChem Bioassay neighboring analysis,é BMC L. DEY, AND S. K. M. HAQUE, çStudying the effects of noisy text on ing applications,é In Proceedings of the Third Workshop on A. BALINSKY, H. BALINSKY, AND S. SIMSKE, çOn the Helmholtz Principle for Data Mining,é Hewlett Building re world text mining LIPHSTAT, Y. SCHLER, AND M. RAJMAN, çKnowledge Management: A Text Mining Approach,é Proc. of the 2nd Int. Conf. on LIPHSTAT, M. RAJMAN, Y. SCHLER, AND O. ZAMIR, çText mining at the term level,é Proc. of the 2nd European Symposium on C. SCHOLTES, çText Mining: The next step in search technology Integrating structured data and text: a multi dimensional approach V. GUPTA AND G. S. LEHAL, çA Survey of Text Mining Techniques and Applications,é Journal of Emerging Technologies in Web  Proc      
191 


             


      


 14   Variable name="Request_ID" kind="linkToIndication" dataType="UINT16" units="none   Variable name="Result" kind="indication" dataType="UINT16" units="none   Enumeration    Option name="No_Error value="1 description Request was successful  are valid   Option name="Failure value="2 description Request could not be fulfilled  Variables returned are invalid   Enumeratio n   Variable   Variable name="Device_ID" kind="ID" dataType="UINT16" units="none    Variable name="RSSI" kind="signalStrength" dataType="UINT16" units="none    Variable name="Battery_Status" kind="batteryLife" dataType="UINT16" units none    Variable name="Architecture" kind="hardwareArchitecture" dataType="UINT08" units="none     Enumeration   Option name="cc2430" value="1" description="The device is a TI cc2430 board   Option name="cc2530" value="2 description="The device is a TI cc2530 board   Enumeration    Variable    Variable name="TIM_Type" kind="nodeType" dataType="UINT08" units="none     Enumeration   Option name="coordinator" value="1" description="The node is a cting as a ZigBee  coordinator   Option name="router" value="2" description="The node is acting as a ZigBee  router     name="end device value="3 description="The node is acting as a ZigBee  end device   Enumeration    Variable   DataReplyMsg   Request   Interface     Interface id="3" name="Thermistor" description="Thermistor service interface   Request   CommandMsg id="1" name="DVS_GET_TEMPERATURE.request   Variable name="Re quest_ID" kind="linkToIndication" dataType="UINT32" units="none   Variable name="Device_ID" kind="ID" dataType="UINT32" units="none   CommandMsg   DataReplyMsg id="1" name="DVS_GET_TEMPERATURE.indication   Variable name="R equest_ID" kind="linkToIndication" dataType="UINT32" units="none   Variable name="Result" kind="indication" dataType="UINT08" units="none   Enumeration   Option name="No_Error value="1 description="Request was successful  are valid   Option name="Failure value="2 description="Request could not be fulfilled  Variables returned are invalid   Enumeration   Variable   Variable name="Temperature kind="tempera ture dataType="FLOAT64 units="F rangeMin="0 rangeMax="100" accuracy="0.10   Variable name="Thermistor_Status" kind="thermistorStateIndication" dataType="UINT08" units="none   Enumeration   Option name="No_Error" value 1" description="The device has detected no errors   Option name="Error" value="2" description="The device has detected an error   Enumeration   Variable   DataReplyMsg   Request   Request   Command Msg id="2" name="DVS_GET_SENSOR_RATE.request   Variable name="Request_ID" kind="linkToIndication" dataType="UINT32" units="none   Variable name="Device_ID" kind="ID" dataType="UINT32" units="none   CommandMsg   DataReplyMs g id="2" name="DVS_GET_SENSOR_RATE.indication   Variable name="Request_ID" kind="linkToIndication" dataType="UINT32" units="none   Variable name="Result" kind="indication" dataType="UINT08" units="none   Enumeration    Option name="No_Error value="1 descr iption="Request was successful  are valid   Option name="Failure value="2 description Request could not be fulfilled  Variables returned are invalid   Enumeration   Variable   Variable name="Sensor_Publish_Rate" kind="duration" dataType="FLOAT64" units="s   DataReplyMsg   Request   Request  


 15   CommandMsg id="3" name="DVS_SET_SENSOR_RATE.request   Variable name="Request_ID kind="linkToIndication" dataType="UINT32" units="none   Variable name="Device_ID" kind="ID" dataType="UINT32" units="none    Variable name="Sensor_Publish_Rate" kind="rateChangeRequest" dataType="FLOAT64" units="s   CommandMsg    DataReplyMsg id="3" name="DVS_SET_SENSOR_RATE.indication   Variable name="Request_ID" kind="linkToIndication" dataType="UINT32" units="none   Variable name="Result" kind="indication" dataType="UINT08" units="none   Enumerat ion   Option name="No_Error value="1 descri ption="Request was successful Variables returned are valid   Option name="Failure value="2 description Request could not be fulfilled  Variables returned are invalid   Enumeration   Variable   Variable name="Sensor_Publish_Rate" kind="duration" dataType="FLOAT64" units="s    Variable name="Sensor_Publish_Rate_Status kind="PublishRateStateIndication dataType="UINT08 units="none   Enumer ation   Option name="Not_Supported value="1 description="The sensor device does not implement this rate   Option name="Rate_Changed value="2 description="The sensor device has updated its publish rate   Enumerat ion   Variable   DataReplyMsg   Request   Notification   DataMsg id="1" msgRate="1" msgArrival="PERIODIC" name="DVS_GET_TEMPERATURE_PERIODIC.indication   Variable name="Temperature kind="temperature dataType="FLOAT64  units="F rangeMin="0 rangeMax="100" accuracy="0.10   Variable name="Thermistor_Status" kind="thermistorStateIndication" dataType="UINT08" units="none   Enumeration   Option name="No_Error" value="1" description="The de vice has detected no errors   Option name="Error" value="2" description="The device has detected an error   Enumeration   Variable   DataMsg   Notification   Interface  xTEDS    


 16  ES   1 a   Gi l s t r a p    Ba l d w i n   S      Fa u l t  T o l e r a n c e  i n  e  Wi r e l e s s  S e n s o r  Ne t wo r k s    I E E E  Ae r o s p a c e   2 0 1 0  P 1 4 8 0 5  2 Al e n a   R  a  F  O s s e n f o r t  J  I nt e l l i ge nt  W i r e l e s s  Se n s o r  N e t w o r k s  f o r  Sp a c e c r a f t  H e a l t h  M o n i t o r i n g    AA  In fo t e c h  C o n fe re n c e  2 0 1 2  3 C om pl e t e  s t a nda r d doc um e nt s  a nd w hi t e  pa pe r s  a r e  av ai l ab l e at  t h e e o r g  w e b  p a g e   e o r g S ta n d a r d s  Zi g B e e Ne t wo r k De v i c e s  Ov e r vi e w  a s px  4 G 133 1 2013  S pa c e  P l ug d Pl a y  A r c h i t e c t u r e  St a n d a r d s  D e v e l o p m e n t G u id e b o o k P u b lis h e d 2 0 1 3  5 P l u g d Pl a y   Pn P  St r u c t u r e s  f o r  Sa t e l l i t e  A p p l i c a t i o n s   ht t p   w w w  a f s bi r s t t r  c om  P ubl i c a t i ons  D oc um e nt s  I nnov n 042309 Sp a c e W o r k s 6 pdf  6 I EEE  ht t p   w w w  ni s t  gov e l  i s d i e e e  i e e e 1451 c f m  7 Z a ck  r ef er en ce U R L   ht t p   v as t  u ccs  ed u  p r o j ect s  t r au m ag p s _ f i l es  d o cs  ch i p co n  Z k f   8 C C 2 530 R e f e r e nc e  U R L   www t i  c o m  l i t  d s  s y m l i n k  cc2 4 3 0 f   9 R ef er en ce A r ch i t ect u r e f o r  S p ace I n f o r m at i o n  Ma n a g e m e n t   C C S D S  3 1 2  0 G 0  Gr e e n  B o o k   M a r c h  2013  0 D DS  r e f e r e n c e  UR L   p o r t a l s  g  dds    1 A AC  M i c r o t e c  r e f e r e n c e  UR L   p p n p a a c m ic r o te c c o m in d e x p h p in tr o d u c tio n to ug d pl a y ht m l  2 D ig i r e f e r e n c e U R L  ht t p   w w w  di gi  c om  pr oduc t s  Zi g B e e   3 P B o o n m a a n d J S u z u k i  T o w ar d  I n t er o p er ab l e Pu b l i s h  Su b s c r i b e  C o m m u n i c a t i o n  b e t w e e n  W i r e l e s s  Se n s o r  N e t w o r k s  a n d  A c c e s s  Ne t wo r k s    I n  Pr o c   o f  IE E E  In t e r n a t i o n a l  W o r k s h o p  o n  In f o r m a t i o n  R e t r i e v a l  i n  Se ns or  N e t w or k s   I R SN  L a s V e g a s N V J a n u a r y 2 0 0 9   B IO G R A P H Y  Ri c h a r d  L   Al e n a  is  a   En g i n e e r  i n  t h e  I n t e l l i g e n t  S y s t e m s  Di v i s i o n  a t  NAS A Am e s   M r   Al e n a  wo r k e d  o n  t h e G r o u n d  D at a Sy s t e m  a n d  p e r f o r m e d  Co m m u n i c a t i o n s  A n a l y s i s  d u r i n g  ope r a t i ons  f or  t he  L C R O S S  L una r  Mi s s i o n  a n d  o n  a v i o n i c s  a n d  s o f t w a r e  a r c h i t e c t u r e s  f o r  Lu n a r  S u r f a c e  S y s t e m s  f o r  h u m a n  m i s s i o n s   H e  w a s  t h e  c o le a d  f o r  th e  A d v a n c e d  D ia g n o s tic  S y s te m s  f o r  I n l Sp a c e  St a t i o n   I SS  Pr o j e c t   d e v e l o p i n g  m o d e l d di a gnos t i c  t ool s  f or  s pa c e  ope r a t i ons   H e  w a s  t he  c hi e f  ar ch i t ect  o f  a f l i g h t  ex p er i m en t  co n d u ct ed  ab o ar d  S h u t t l e an d  M i r  u s i n g  l ap t o p  co m p u t er s   p er s o n al  d i g i t al  as s i s t an t s  an d  s er v er s  i n  a w ir e le s s  n e tw o r k  f o r  th e  I S S  H e  w a s  a ls o  th e  te c h n ic a l le a d  f o r  th e  D a ta b u s  A n a ly s is  T o o l f o r  In t e rn a t i o n a l  S p a c e  S t a t i o n  o n or bi t  di a gnos i s   H e  w a s  gr oup l e a d f or  I nt e l l i ge nt  M obi l e  T e c hnol ogi e s   de ve l opi ng pl a ne t a r y e xpl or a t i on s ys t e m s  f or  f i e l d s i m ul a t i  Al e n a  h o l d s  a n  M  S   i n  E l e c t r i c a l  E n g i n e e r i n g  a n d  Co m p u t e r  S c i e n c e  f r o m  t h e  U n i v e r s i t y  o f  Ca l i f o r n i a   Be r k e l e y   H e  i s  t h e  w i n n e r  o f  t h e  N A S A  S i l v e r  S n o o p y  Awa r d  i n  2 0 0 2   a  NAS A Gr o u p  Ac h i e v e m e n t  Awa r d  i n  1998 f or  hi s  w or k on t he  I S S  P ha s e  1 P r ogr a m T e a m a n d  a  Sp a c e  Fl i g h t  A w a r e n e s s  A w a r d  i n  1 9 9 7    Joh n  O s s e n f or t  is  a C om put e r  S ci en t i s t  an d  em p l o y ee o f     at  N A S A  A m es  R es ear ch  Ce n t e r    cu r r en t l y  w o r k i n g   th e  D is c o v e r y  a n d  S y s te m s  H e a lth  re s e a rc h  a re a  in te g r a tin g  f a u lt ma n a g e me n t  t e c h n ol ogi e s  w i t h ad v an ced  t es t i n g  an d  de m ons t r a t i on of  t he  O r i on M ul t i pur pos e  C r e w  V e hi c l e   I n  th e  p a s t h e  h a s  wo r k e d  i n  n e t wo r k i n g  a n d  s y s t e m s  ad m i n i s t r at i o n  o n  s ev er al  ex p l o r at i o n  p r o j ect s  an d  pa r t i c i pa t e d i n ous  fi e l d  s i m u l a t i o n s   a s s i s t i n g  i n  a l l  p ect s  o f  w i r ed  an d  w i r el es s  n et w o r k  d es i g n   d ep l o y m en t   tr o u b le s h o o tin g  a n d  m a in te n a n c e  J o h n  h a s  a  d u a l B A  de gr e e  i n A nt hr opol ogy a nd E a s t  A s i a n S t udi e s  f r om  Wa s h i n g t o n  U n i v e r s i t y  i n  S t   L o u i s    Th o m  S t o n e  is  a  S e n io r  C o m p u te r  Sc i e n t i s t  w i t h  C o m p u t e r  Sc i e n   h  Ba c h e l o r s  d e g r e e  a t  SU NY  St o n y  B r o o k   Mr   S t o n e  h a s  be e n a t  N A S A  A R C  e m pl oye d by va r i ous  c ont r a c t or s  s i nc e  1989  wo r k i n g  on a dva nc e d ne t w or ki ng  He  wa s  a n  e n g i n e e r  wi t h  t h e  NAS A Sc i e n c e  I n t e r n e t  p r o j e c t  o f f i c e  w h e r e  h e l ed  t h e p r o j ect  t h at  b r  re l i a b l e  In t e rn e t  c o n n e c t i o n s  t o  re m o t e  l o c a t i o n s  i n c l u d i n g  U  S   ba s e s  i n A nt a r c t i c a  i nc l udi ng M c M ur do S t a t i on a nd Am u n d s o n  S c o t t  S o u t h  P o l e  S t a t i o n   He  wa s  p r i n c i p a l  en g i n eer  f o r  co m m u n i cat i o n s  f o r  t h e N A S A  S ear ch  f o r  t er r es t r i al  I n t el l i g en ce  S E T I   p r o j ect  an d  w as  a s en i o r  en g i n eer  f o r  t h e S p ace S t at i o n  B i o l o g i cal  R es ear ch  P r o j ect   Be f o r e  h i s  i n v o l v e m e n t  w i t h  N A S A   S t o n e  w a s  e m p l o y e d  i n  th e  c o m p u te r  a n d  c o m m u n ic a tio n s  in d u s tr y  a n d  ta u g h t te le c o m m u n ic a tio n s a t th e u n d e r g ra d u a t e  l e v e l    


 17  Jar r e n  A   B al d w i n  is  a  Ch i c a g o  n a t i v e  a n d  c u r r e n t l y  se r v e s a s t h e  l e a d  E l e c t r i c a l  En g i n e e r  a t  B a y  A r e a  s t a r t u p   Oc u l e v e  I n c   He  g r a d u a t e d  fr o m  t h e  U n i v e r s i t y  o f Il l i n o i s  wi t h  a  B  S   i n  2 0 0 9  an d  r ecei v ed  an  M  S   i n  El e c t r i c a l  En g i n e e r i n g  f r  St a n f o r d  U n i v e r s i t y  i n  2 0 1 2   Ja r r e n  d e v e l o p e d  h a r d w a r e  a n d  so f t w a r e  sy st e m s f o r  a  w i d e  ra n g e  o f  f i e l d s   i n c l u d i n g  s p a c e  s c i e n c e  s y s t e m s  a n d  m e d i c a l  de vi c e s  a s  a N A S A  A m es  i nt e r n i n t he  In t e l l i g e n t  S y s t e m s     1  2  3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   


                        


                           


   












































     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


