002\003\004\005\006\007\b\005\t\n We describe a system model for determining decision making strategies based upon the ability to perform data mining and pattern discovery utilizing open source information to prepare for specific events or situations from multiple information sources. Within this paper, we discuss the 
 Mark Rahmes, Rick Pemble, Kevin Fox, John Delay  Harris Corporation Government Communications Systems Melbourne, Florida 32904  
A Cognitive Hierarchical Fram ework for Evaluating Emergency Response Activities 
 
development of a method for determining actionable information. We have integrated open source information linking to human sentiment and manipulated other user selectable interlinking relative probabilities for events based upon current knowledge Probabilistic predictions are critical in practice on many decision making applications because optimizing the user experience requires being able to compute the expected utilities of mutually exclusive pieces of content Hierarchy game theory for decision making is valuable where 
two or more agents seek their own goals, possibilities of conflicts, competition and cooperation. The quality of the knowledge extracted from the information available is restricted by complexity of the model. Hierarchy game theory framework enables complex modeling of data in probabilistic modeling. However, applicability to big data is complicated by the difficulties of inference in complex probabilistic models and by computational constraints. We focus on applying probabilistic models to evaluating emergency response activities. We specifically evaluate adversarial competition to 
help decide and plan how much to give in our emergency response example to capture the position of highest donor nation using mixed probabilities from game theory Our contribution in this paper is to combine linear programming hierarchical game theory with uncertainty modeling as a tool in order to plan for activities based on open source intelligence   Index Terms\204Game Theory; Emergency Response Decision Making; Operations Research 
 
I NTRODUCTION  Game theory is the study of strategic decision making. It 
I 
is the study of mathematical models of conflict and cooperation between intelligent rational decision-makers and is often thought of as an interactive decision theory. It has been applied to economics, political science psychology, logic, biology and other complex issues Modern game theory began with the idea regarding the existence of mixed-strategy equilibrium in two-person zerosum games, applied to economics. Later this evolved to provide a theory of expected utility, which allowed mathematicians and economists to treat decision-making with uncertainty. The notion of probabilistic predictions utilizing game theory is critical in practice to many decision 
making applications because optimizing user experience requires being able to compute the expected utilities of mutually exclusive pieces of data Economic factors \(e.g. unemployment rates, prices for food, such as bread, or fuel\olitical factors \(freedoms type of government\, Religious factors \(type of religions religious tensions\mbined with trend information such as sentiment analysis on social media, open source data, news etc. can provide indicators of areas undergoing stress or at risk.  An attempt to predict the likelihood of reaction to a future event will be based on correct situation analysis Efforts to combine the information required for these 
predictions are time consumin g and labor intensive. The availability of open source social media information and implementation of artificial intelligence \(AI\methodologies makes this problem tractable. Our GlobalSite system, shown in Fig 1, can be used as a method for decision making and reduce cost of analyses   Fig1. System Overview  As an example, consider the recent case of Typhoon Haiyan, which devastated portions of the Philippines in early November 2013.  Weather data and hurricane/typhoon forecast models could be used to project the path of the storm, and anticipate areas that may be affected.  This could 
f 
  
lead to enriching Foundatio n GEOINT content for the Philippines in anticipation of the event \(landfall of Typhoon Haiyan\well as collection of additional data after the event to detect changes, assess damage, and support Disaster Relief/Humanitarian Aid The recent typhoon in the Philippines has seen an exciting change in how crowdsourcing can assist in disaster WOCC 2014 
978-1-4799-5249-6/14/$31.00 \2512014 IEEE B3.1.pd 


B3.1.pd f WOCC 2014  response. Rather than sit and wait for heads of organizations and governments to dictate wh at is needed on the ground people are able to assist first re sponders in the very work of saving lives, both directly and indirectly. Through the use of powerful technology, people are able to track weather patterns that are more accurate than anything you will find on the evening news. Geography buffs are able to use satellite imaging technology to create maps and locate where people are stranded and in desperate need of food and water. There are even examples of people who have been able to locate others who were buried under debris.  This kind of response is much more aggressive to a disast  The Philippines has strategic importance to the U.S. as part of the strategy plans to counterbalance China\220s rising military influence with strong American allies in the region The U.S. and the Philippines are in the middle of negotiating an increased American military presence in the country [5  T hus it ma y b e  i n t h e  U  S  na tio na l i n te r e st to  be known as the most responsive nation for diplomatic purposes. In this paper, we look at modeling the situation for purposes of decision making on how responsive to be based on intelligence of other nations \(or players\vities II    A NALYTIC H IERARCHY P ROCESS  The Analytic Hierarchy Process \(AHP\ a multicriteria decision-making approach. The AHP has attracted the interest of many researchers mainly due to the nice mathematical properties of the method and the fact that the required input data are rather easy to obtain. The AHP is a decision support tool which can be used to solve complex decision problems. It uses a multi-level hierarchical structure of objectives, criteria, subcriteria, and alternatives The pertinent data are derived by using a set of pairwise comparisons. These comparis ons are used to obtain the weights of importance of the decision criteria, and the relative performance measures of the alternatives in terms of each individual decision criterion. If the comparisons are not perfectly consistent, then it provides a mechanism for improving consistency  Hierarchical game theory can be used to solve for the best strategy for decision making in complex problem solving. Hierarchical game theory can determine cooperating capacity between hierarchies and detect the best united strategy. This can provide a powerful method of resource allocation and asset planning in order to maximize a player\220s respons i g u re 2 s h o w s th e h i erarc h i cal game structure for our example. All of these hierarchies are part of the overall player\220s capability to compete with other players. The four hierarchies are: sensors, measures of merit, organizations, and competing donor nations. In our example we input uncertainy amounts of levels of giving to emergency response and model the probability of a nation attaining the desired position of giving with respect to another player or nation. A feedback loop is used to model sequential time periods as re sources  This framework solves for controlling ability in groups and the hierarchical trait in command and control. Thus, to enhance independent decision-making in lower decisionmakers and make decision-making between the upper and the lower decision-makers not only have clear hierarchies but also interact and optimize each other. Sequentially perfect effects can be obtained wi th a hierarchy m    Fig 2. Model Process Flow  The organizations determine the missions. The missions are to be carried out by the organizations. The sensors are used to carry out the missions. Our example consists of organizations, sensors, measures of merit, and players Figure 3 shows the elements of each hierarchy   Fig. 3.  Hierarchies and Elements  The goal is to maximize the decision function. The overall performance of the decision is based on several levels of hierarchical decisions. Our example starts with the decision to optimize measures of merit for emergency response compared with other players. Task assets based on mission and the responsible organization. Cooperation between organizations is modeled using multi-player Prisoner\220s Dilemma in our solutio  T h e ch oice of  sensor to use is based on availability. The measures of merit are based on real world data. Each level of hierarchy has an impact on the overall ability for a country or blue player to compete on a global basis. Cooperation is less likely to emerge in a large group than a small group. The iterated Prisoner\220s Dilemma \(PD\ame has been used extensively in 


In 2012 proportionally more Americans gave in some way than in any other country. The United States has therefore risen again to first place in the rank ings. The key reason for this rise is that a higher proportion of Americans helped a stranger more than any other country in  In philanthropy, strategic giving of time, talent, and treasure can increase impact. However, in disaster philanthropy, effective and efficient giving can make the difference between life and death. Remember that disaster situations evolve quickly, and specific in-kind needs can be unpredictable. Cash donations provide relief organizations with agility, and they are able to purchase what is needed as new requirements arise. Giving cash enables relief organizations to purchase supplies locally, stimulating the recently impacted economy and providing both cash flow and employment to those impacted by the disaster. There are no transportation costs, customs fees, delays, or logistical issues when cash is given, and relief workers are able to dedicate their time to coordinating vital emergency care instead of being distracted by sorting and storing piles of in-kind gifts. When goods are purchased locally, they are more likely to be familiar commodities to survivors, and they are fresh and arrive quickly without extraneous transportation and storage costs. The goods purchased are also guaranteed to be more culturally, nutritionally, and environmentally appropriate for specific communities [4  Our solution populates a reward matrix from open source unstructured data, as shown in Fig 5, in near real time through powerful game theory analysis. Once data accuracy is proven through sensitivity analysis, the information can either be used as training data or populated into a reward matrix for resource allocation and adversarial planning utilizing game theory concepts such as in a competitive or cooperative game model    the study of cooperative behaviors in social and biological systems. The N player PD game is realistic for modeling the cooperation strategies  However, in the real world, individual rational actions are not always taken. In our example, responsible organizations are given incentives to cooperate so that their action can take a better action in the intern ational game so that the blue player can best compete e s u l t s of a n open competition are well explained  by CH. In many games it boils down to predicting how deeply  other agents in the game will be reasoning. An agent  that does not reason enough risks being exploited by its  opponents, while an agent that reasons too much may  not be able to interact productively with its opponents   We let the objective function be F = \(F 1 F 2 here F 1  could be the blue team and F 2 could be the red team. We let x 1 be the decision maker\220s choice for blue and x 2 for red We let h 11 to h 1m be the lower hierarchical decision maker\220s response for blue. The objective function for blue\220s lower decision makers is f ij We let S 1 be the feasible sets for variable x 1 S 1 depends on x 1 and h 11 to h mj The lower decision-maker can modify the upper decision maker's mind according to the actual status [8    Fig. 4.  Hierarchical Structure  In our example, there are several resource management stages or hierarchies as shown in Fig 4. These stages include information needs, collection objectives, observables, tasks and plans. The resource management process seeks to decompose information needed to satisfy mission objectives into one or more tasks. The essence of resource management is uncertainty management [9  Reso urce a llo catio n p r o b le m s in  w h ic h limited resources must be allocated among several activities are often solved by dynamic or linear programming Operations Research is a branch of mathematics that studies decision making to obtain the best decision. Game theory can help determine the optimal investment strategy Generally, players may not possess full information about their opponents. In particular, players may possess private information that others should take into account when forming expectations about how a player would behave. To analyze these interesting situations, a class of games with incomplete information was created as use case scenarios \(i.e., games where at least one player is uncertain about another player\220s payoff function\ which are the analogue of the normal form games with complete information similar to Bayesian games \(static games of incomplete information\7   Game theory offers important insights and demonstrates superiority of cooperation over competition. Game theory models the heuristics people use in managing their conflicts and helps to explain why rational decisions often miss opportunities for mutual gain   m perf ect inf o r m at i o n may still be useful to help make decisions. Opponent modeling works by observing the opponent\220s actions and building a model by combining information from a precomputed equilibrium strategy with the observations [2 III   B3.1.pd f  M EASURES O F M ERIT  Despite a slowdown in the global economy in the year that the survey took place, the 2013 World Giving Index has recorded a return to growth for charitable giving across all the areas we observe \205 helping a stranger, giving money and volunteering time over the same period WOCC 2014 


B3.1.pd f WOCC 2014   Fig 5. World Giving Index Data  A spider chart is a graphical method of displaying multivariate data as shown in Fi g 6. Each of the values of time, treasure, and talent investment from data contained in the World Giving Index and is represented starting from the center of the 2D plot   Fig 6. Spider Chart  IV    G AME T HEORY A NALYSIS  Our techniques enable a methodical approach to intelligent planning and reaction based upon construction and analysis of a decision model resulting in a structure of the most probable solution. This technique is useful for a number of applications ranging from behavioral economics war fighter planning, and analysis of information messaging, and risk management. Our system supports an artificial intelligence \(AI\uperv ised learning approach to quantify information based on user selectable attributes and deriving probabilistic decision outcomes The approach combines the following input: open unstructured\ource, and/or direct user input/modification In particular, we capture and model \215sentiment\216 and other situational factors through the assignment of positive neutral and negative values. A reward matrix is then populated using game theoretic concepts such as in a competitive game model. GlobalSite utilizes game theory which permits the ability to solve for iterative solutions instantaneous visual feedback, and interactions by the user on demand. Our output enables a methodical approach to intelligent planning and reac tion including interaction of variables, parameters and attributes by user resulting in updated probabilities In many situations, the opponents know the strategy that they are following. We assume that the players know what actions are available. A maximin equilibrium often is the strategy and is called the Nash theory application of zero or constant sum strategy game  e also con s ider a constant sum game in which for both player\220s strategies, the two player\220s reward add up to a constant value. This means while both players are in conflict, that there is more to gain than simply having one player\220s reward equaling the other player\220s loss. Game theory considers the effect of a player\220s decision on other decision makers. Two or more decision makers choose an action and that action affects the rewards earned by the players In many situations, the opponents know the strategy that they are following and what actions are available. The maximin equilibrium often is the strategy and is called the Nash theory application of zero or constant sum strategy game. This threshold can be used to determine if the player is on the blue or red team.  For example, if a reward matrix exists, then the equilibrium point is the one where the reward is the smallest valu e in its row an d the largest number in its column. This equilibrium is also known as the Nash Equilibrium  max all rows row min\ = min all columns column max 1 This left half of \(1\resents the basic applied theory to decision making of our model under uncertainty. For a possible action, one consideration is to choose the \215best\216 worst outcome [19 T h e m a xi m i n criterio n s u gge sts that t h e  decision-maker should choose the alternative which maximizes the minimum payoff he can get. This pessimistic approach implies that the decision-maker should expect the worst to happen. The maximin criterion is concerned with making the worst possible outcome as pleasant as possible The right half of \(1\ents minimax regret criterion which uses the concept of opportunity cost to arrive at a decision. The regret of an outcome is the difference between the value of that outcome and the maximum value of all the possible outcomes. For any action and state, there is opportunity of loss or regret. The decision-maker should choose the alternative that minimizes the maximum regret he/she could suffer. Although these decision-making criteria discussed may seem reasonable, many decisions are made without using any analysis  We can solve this linear program using several manual techniques such as the simplex method, the dual simplex method, or the artificial basis technique. We can also use a 


where p is the probability vector for which we assume to be a uniform distribution A g ood i m pl e m e n t a t i on in Matlab is available. The more change occurs between the pre/post tampering with a lower value for mutual information. Note that a lowe r MI value, when comparing similarity of giving, means that indexes are very different and quantifies the amount of difference in response  Cognitive hierarchy is importa nt because it predicts the effect of group size which is not predicted by the Nash equilibrium [1 T h e result s f o r the top three players with the U.S. are shown in Fig.7 and illustrate the probability of uncertainty in donor competition and serve as a cognitive decision making tool to help plan for responsive actions The probability of a nation attaining their desired position in the world giving index for emergency response is modeled as a function of increasing giving levels by a competitor nation in order to attain their national goals     Fig 7. Probabilities and Mutual Information  002\003\004\005\002 002  computer with LINDO software from www.lindo.com to solve for the mixed strategies as well as the value of the responses Using different weights allowed for choices is to highlight the ability and need for a tool which can be used to allow the user to dial and modify modeled parameters of the reward matrix to model \215what if\216 scenarios. Additionally saving the weights to a file allows for peer review in order to check and validate decisions. Our approach is modeled so that the process can be re peated to allow for new or higher quality data/information to be inserted into the process to generate updated results  In equation \(2\we add in the uncertainty of donor nation contributions in order to model adversarial planning more completely. The values of alpha, beta, and gamma correspond to talent, treasure, and time respectively Equation \(2\n of a reward matrix to a linear program which can be solved mathematically. The subscripts on alpha, beta, and gamma correspond to the player row from the reward matrix. This allows for uncertainty modeling of each individual giving level. We show the linear program for the top four donor nations  max v      \(2 s.t v \205 \(77 + \002 1  1 205  \(64 + \002 2  2 205  \(58 + \002 3  3 205  \(33 + \002 4  4 003\004\005 v \205 \(62 + \006 1  1 205 \(67 + \006 2  2 205 \(27 + \006 3  3 205 \(21 + \006 4  4 003\004\005   v \205 \(45 + \007 1  1 205 \(34 + \007 2  2 205 \(14 + \007 3  3 205  \(25 + \007 4  4 003\004\005 x 1 x 2 x 3 x 4 b\004\005 x 1 x 2 x 3 x 4 1 V   B3.1.pd f  A DVERSARIAL P LANNING  One method for detecting change or similarity between the giving of donor nations can be accomplished through the application of a mutual information algorithm. Mutual information \(MI\een two variables is based on information theory. It measures the amount of information between two variables. Mutual information considers the joint entropy and the individual entropies and is defined as   Y\\205 H\(X,Y 3 where I is mutual information and H is entropy [3 W h en the data vectors are more similar, a lower numerical value is obtained for joint entropy. The mutual information value increases with increasing similarity. As the statistical relationship between the two vectors becomes more dissimilar, the joint entropy, H\(X, Y\creases T h e vectors X and Y in our experiments correspond to histograms with six bins each for vector. Entropy is defined as WOCC 2014 H\(p i 002p i log\(p i  


International Journal of Industrial Engineering: Applications and Practice International Game Theory Review Los Alamos National Laboratory Technical Report C ONCLUSION  No decision is ever 100% correct; however understanding the effects of algorithmic decisions based upon multiple variables, attributes, or factors and strategies with probability assignments can increase the probability for the best decision for a particular situation or event. We discussed a linear programming method for modeling adversarial planning for emergency response activities with limited resources. We realize th at solution presented is only a guide and is not intended to replace the human brain in decision making. We offer a user assisted means of prioritization to make agent and resources more effective Automated game theory is promising for automatically solving real world strategies and helps the analyst make optimal decisions Our contribution in this pa per is to combine linear programming, hierarchical game theory with uncertainty modeling in order to plan for activities based on open source intelligence. Our example shows mixed probabilities of a country staying in the top or desired position as a donor nation with respect to emergency response activities. The results shown illustrate the probability of uncertainty in donor competition and serve as a cognitive decision making tool to help plan for responsive actions. The probability of a nation attaining their desired position in the world giving index for emergency response is modeled as a function of increasing giving levels by a competitor nation in order to attain their national goals Our solution provides the ability to populate a reward matrix from unstructured big data. We combine a number of technologies for data fusion. Our solution is a multi-use application: course of action planning, resource management, and risk assessment. In the presence of game theory and hierarchical theory, and on the basis of dynamic state attrition-models, our strategy can solve this kind of problem favorably Automated processing techniques are needed to augment tactical intelligence-analysis capabilities by identifying and recognizing patterns, weight ing them appropriately providing near real time objective decisions where the user can interact with the information based upon their experiences and knowledge base. GlobalSite is a probabilistic decision solution which allows for users to interact with information in near real time using game theory to provide a reward matrix of the best possible outcomes Our approach adds computational intelligence to provide the analyst with a decision making capability to reduce time to collect and process data wh ile retaining the information needed to complete the mission analysis. Additionally the probabilities of successfully performing emergency response is filtered by the level of cooperation between participating organizations. Proper execution is critical for attaining the desired impact in another nation  R EFERENCES  1 Ca m e rer, Co lin F., T eck H u a Ho an d Ju i n Ku a n Ch o n g  A  Cognitive  Hierarchy Theory of One-shot Games." \(2002  G a n z f r i e d  S   and T  S a n d h o l m  215G a m e t h eo r y b ased  opponent modeling in large imperfect-information games,\216 Computer Vision-ECCV 2004 Interactive Decision Theory and Game Theory 2011 3 G a v i s h Ma ta n, \215A c r a s h c our s e on s h a n n on\220 s m u tua l  information for categorical data analysis\216, January 7, 2011 4 htt p w w w huff i ng tonpos t.c o m lori j-be r tm a n c a u tion-y oudont-want-to_b_4318305.html 5 h ttp w or ld.tim e  c o m  2013 1 1 1 8/ty phoo nha iy a n u s p le dg e s more-aid-to-philippines-recovery 6 ht tp w w w innoc e n tiv e  c o m  blog 201 3/1 1 2 5/t h e im pa c t o f crowdsourcing-on-typhoon-haiyan-response 7 h tt ps w w w caf online  org  pdf W orldG i v i ng Inde x 2013 _1 37 4A WEB.pdf 8 L i Zha n g  Zha n g A n Zha n g Y ong f a ng a nd Shi Z h if u S tudy  on group air to ground attack-defends hierarchical dynamic decision-making 1999 14  Ra hm e s M., Ha c k e tt, J., Fox K P e m b le R., L e m i e u x  G   Gans, H.,\216 A Cognitive Group Hierarchy Game Theoretic Framework for Bandwidth Management\216 IEEE CogSIMA 2014 Conference, March 2014 15  Ra hm e s M., W ilde r K., Ya te s H., Fox  K 215 N e a r Re a l T i m e  Discovery and Conversion of Open Source Information to a Reward Matrix\216, WMSCI 2013, 12 July 2013 16  Russakoff, Daniel B., Carlo Tomasi, Torsten Rohlfing, and Calvin R. Maurer Jr. "Image similarity using mutual information of regions." In 2010 21 Y a o   Xin  a nd  P a ul J  D a r w e n A n e x pe r i m e nta l s t udy of Nperson iterated prisoner's dilemma games." In pp. 90-108. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1995     VI B3.1.pd f  International Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems \(AAMAS pp 596-607. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2004 17 Sla n tc he v  B 215 G am e T h e o r y Sta tic a nd dy na m i c gam e s of  incomplete information,\216 Dept of Political Science, Univ San Diego, May 15, 2008 18  Triantaphyllou, Evangelos, and Stuart H. Mann. "Using the analytic hierarchy process for decision making in engineering applications: some challenges 18, no. 3 \(2007\: 540-544 9 L i g g i ns H a ll, L lina s 215 H a n d book  of Mul tis e n s o r D a ta  Fus i on  Theory, and Practice\216, 2nd Edition, 2009 10  Ma ts um oto, Mits uta k a   F or m u la tion a n d a pplic a t i ons of  hierarchy games 2.1 \(1995 35-44  19 W ayne Winston, Operations Research Applications and Algorithms 4th. Edition, 2003 20  W unde r, M i c h a e l Mic h a e l L L ittm a n Mic h a e l K a is e r s a n d  John Robert Yaros. "A Cognitive Hierarchy Model Applied to the Lemonade Game." In Journal of Systems Engineering and Electronics WOCC 2014 Progress in Evolutionary Computation 3, no 02n03 \(2001\: 189-201 11   N a s h J ohn  N onC o ope r a tiv e G a m e s  T h e  A nna ls of  Mathematics 54\(2\:286-295, 1951 12  P e ng H a nc hua n  L ong Fuhu i, a nd D i ng C h r i s   F e a t ur e  selection based on mutual information: criteria of maxdependency, max-relevance, and min-redundancy," IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence Vol. 27, No. 8, pp.1226-1238, 2005 13  P i c a r d  Ric k  T odd G r a v e s and J a ne Book e r 215 Sta bility  modeling and game-theoretic considerations,\216 


1   Isa D, Lee L H, Kallimani V P, and Rajkumar R 223Text document preprocessing with the Bayes formula for classification using the support vector machine\224 IEEE T ransactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Vol. 20, 2008, pp. 23 227 31  1   Wan C H, Lee L H, Rajkumar R and Isa D, \223A hybrid text classification approach with low dependency on parameter by integrating K nearest neighbor and support vector machine\224, Journal of Expert Systems with Applications, Vol. 39\(15\, 2012, pp. 11880 226  11888  1   Salton G, Wang A, and Yang C S, \223A Vector Space Model for Automatic Indexing\224, Communications of the ACM, Vol. 18, 1975, pp. 613 226  620  1   Deerwester S C, Dumais S T, Landauer T K, Fur nas G W and Harshman R A, \223Indexing by Latent Semantic Analysis\224, Journal of the American Society of Information Science, Vol. 41\(16\, 1990,  pp. 391 226  407  1   He X, Cai D, Liu H and Ma W. Y, \223Locality Preserving Indexing for document representation\224 Proceed ings of International Conference on Research and Development I Information Retrieval \(SIGIR\222 04 UK, 2004, pp. 96 226  103  1   Cai D, He X, Zhang W V and Han J, \223Regularized Locality Preserving Indexing via Spectral Regression\224, Proceedings of  Conference on Inf ormation and Knowledge Management \(CIKM\22207 2007, pp. 741 226  750                                 1   Kyriakopoulou A and Kalamboukis T, \223Text classification using clustering. Proceedings of ECML PKDD Discovery Challenge Workshop, 2006  1   Pereira F, Tishby N and Lee L, \223Distributional clustering of English words\224, Proceedings of the 31 st  Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. 1993, pp. 183 226  190  1   Slonim N and Tishby, \223The power of word clustering for text classification\224, Proceedings of t he European Colloquium on IR Research \(ECIR\001  2   Dhillon I, Mallela, S and Kumar R, \223Enhanced word clustering for hierarchical text classification\224 Proceedings of the 8 th  ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Canada 2002, pp. 191 226  200  2   Takamura H and Matsumoto Y, \223Two dimensional clustering for text categorization\224, Proceedings of the Sixth Conference on Natural Language Learning CoNLL  2002\, Taiwan, 2002, pp. 29 226  35  2   Raskutti B., Ferr, H and Kowalczyk, A, \223Using  unlabeled data for text classification through addition of cluster parameters\224, Proceedings of the 19 th  International Conference on Machine Learning ICML Australia, 2002, pp. 514 226  521  2   Zeng H.J., Wang X.H., Chen Z., Lu H and Ma, W.Y 223CBC: Clustering ba sed text classification requiring minimal labeled data\224, Proceedings of the 3 rd  IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, USA, 2003 pp. 443 226  450  2   Guru, D. S., and Nagendraswamy, H. S, \223Symbolic Representation of Two Dimensional Shapes\224 Pattern Recognition Letters Vol.28, 2006, pp. 144 226  155  2   Bock, H.H and Diday, E, \223Analysis of symbolic Data\224, Springer Verlag  2   Bezdek, J.C, \223Pattern Recognition with Fuzzy Objective Algorithms. Kluwer Academic Publishers 1981  216 


              


     


REQUIREMENTS  AND  TARGET  AUDIENCE Knowledge of LexisNexis’ High Performan ce Computing Cluster \(HPCC\not required \(the HPCC serves as Smart View’s backend  Anyone who is tasked with or has an interest in entity reso lution as it pertains to big data is encouraged to attend  DEMO  DURATION The demo will be presented in a 30-minute session  A/V AND EQUIPMENT Personal computer and a projector  PRESENTER’S  BIOGRAPHY Mary Galvin has a decade of professional expertise in the software industry serving in a variety of technical & management roles on pr oducts and projects. Mary s technical domain expertise encompasses both huma n language technology \(HLT as well as data intensive processing systems such as LexisNexis’ Hi gh Performance Computing Cluster \(HPCC  Mary earned her bachelor’s degree in comput er engineering from Villanova University in 2003, where she also received minors in comput er science, Spanish, and naval science. In addition to being proficient in Spanish, she has a strong knowledge of the Arabic and Chinese languages. Mary has been certified as a Project Management Professional \(PMP Management Institute \(PMI   


The 2014 International Conference on Collabora tion Technologies and Systems \(CTS 2014 May 19 - 23, 2014, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA   CTS 2014 DOCTORAL DISSERTATION COLLOQUIUM   A Federated Cloud of Things for Emergency Management Gilberto Taccari Adviser Luca Spalazzi Università Politecnica delle Marche, Ancona, Italy   Designing Mobile Interactions for Athletes Susanne Koch Stigberg Advisers Hilda Tellioglu and Steinar Kristoffersen Vienna University of Technology, Austria and Øs tfold University College, Halden, Norway       


The 2014 International Conference on Collabora tion Technologies and Systems \(CTS 2014 May 19 - 23, 2014, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA   CTS 2014 POSTER PAPERS AND POSTERS Partial List   POSTER PAPERS  Information Exchange and Fusion in a Collaborative Environment using Semantic Information Requirements Joshua M. Powers, Keith D. Shapiro, David S. Monk Securboration Inc., Florida, USA; C5T Corporation, Illinois, USA  An Effective Approach Using Eco-feedback to Motivate Energy Conservation Behaviors Hieu Huynh Chi stfold University College, Halden, Norway  Saving Energy with Pleasure: Designing EnergyRace Web Application Ksenia Dmitrieva stfold University College, Halden, Norway  Promoting Energy Efficient Behavior through Energy-Related Feedback Que Tran stfold University College, Halden, Norway  Collaborative System to Investigate Mental Models the Information Architecture Automatic Tool \(IAAT Cristina Olaverri-Monreal, Joel Gonçalves Technische Universität München, Germany  A New Scheme to Evaluate the Accuracy of Knowledge Representation in Automated Breast Cancer Diagnosis Juan Shan, Lin Li Pace University, New York, USA; Mu rray State University, Kentucky, USA  Disaster Relief Management and Resilience Using Photovoltaic Energy Salahuddin Qazi, William Young State University of New York Institute of Technology New York, USA; SUN Tree Consulting, Florida, USA   TECHNICAL POSTERS  From Microscope to Computer: Using Facebook to Assist Medical Laboratory Scientists in Nigeria Access and Navigate eLearning Courses Jarret Cassaniti, Nandini Jayarajan, Rebecca Shore, Simone Parrish, Lisa Mwaikambo Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health Center for Communication Programs, Maryland, USA  Semantic Search & Integration to Climate Data Ranjeet Devarakonda, Giriprakash Palani samy, Line C. Pouchard, Biva Shrestha Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Tennessee, USA  


Triggering Creativity through Semantic Cross-domain Web Crawling and Routing Francesco Taglino, Fabrizio Smith Institute for System Analysis and Co mputer Science, CNR, Rome, Italy  Integration of Emerging Learning Technologies in Secondary Schools: A Burkina Faso Case Study Romaric R. Zongo University of Minnesota – Twin Cities, Minnesota, USA  Visualization of Energy Consumption: Motivating fo r a Sustainable Behaviour Through Social Media Caroline So  e Olsen stfold University College, Halden, Norway   INDUSTRY POSTERS  Annotation and Deep Search of Se mi-Structured Technical Documents Chris Macks Progeny Systems Corporation, Virginia, USA   


  Paper 2581 Version 2  14   Flight i nformation and processing   Presentation and projection of flight profiles   Real time operational information   Managing both pilot operator and air traffic controller workloads   Procedural processes supported by enhanced automation capabilities   Control sector complexity and management   Separation a ssurance   Airspace d esign and p rocedures   Investment in resolving these constraints  will drive the rate of adoption in civil UAS operations in the NAS One p art of the investment will be driven by the FAA\222s \223F acilities and Equipment\224 F&E Budget over  the next ten years Another part will be driven by defense and federal investment  in R&D  The remaining part will be driven by private investment seeking to develop profitable supplie r s and manufacturing firms of UAS Unfortunately   private investment will not fully launch until there is a clear indication of the public investment into implementing the requisite air traffic management  and air traffic control  ATM/ATC changes into the NAS infrastructure and there i s a common  approach through avionic standards in UA V  equipage   It is expected that avionic standards would lower the end user costs The impact on NAS infrastructure is the outline in the following subsection  Today\222s Air Traffic Control System  Today\222s air traffic control system is built around four basic pillars. These are communications, navigation, surveillance and infrastructure. The mortar holding these pillars together is aviation policy, rules and procedures  The FAA Air Traffic Organizat ion \(ATO\ has identified over 25 FAA procedural orders and notices that will need to be revised to accommodate routine  UAS operations in the NAS. This does not include advisory and informational materials that need to be developed and briefed to air traffi c controllers, pilots and other aviation stakeholders Additionally NAS investments to accommodate UAS efforts and associated costs must extend  beyond training requirements and procedural developments to include modification of infrastructure to permit an d to optimize efficiency and safety of UAS operations in the NAS  The majority of UAS operating in the NAS today are predominantly operated by the DoD. They were not designed with NAS compatibility in mind but rather to meet military mission needs. It is e xpected future commercial UAS will be designed and operated much more along the lines of manned aircraft. For example, current DoD UAS do not have Flight Management Systems and associated NAS aeronautical database and cannot be program m ed to fly approved F AA instrument procedures such as an instrument landing system \(ILS\ approach. Future commercial UAS operating in the NAS will need have integrated avionics systems and NAS capabilities similar to those of manned aircraft. However, unique challenges associa ted with UAS will remain and drive functional changes across many NAS project and programs. Some of these anticipated drivers or changes are listed by FAA program area below  En Route Automation Modernization \(ERAM 227 ERAM will be impacted by the need to be able to accept and process and display lengthy and complex UAS flight plans that include automated flight profile contingencies to the air traffic controller. This includes the ability to display a 20 minute planned route of flight on a controller\222s displa y suite  ERAM needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in an en route center airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained  COA  process now is in use  Nati onal Voice System \(NVS  227 Future air traffic control voice switching systems must be able to provide timely and direct pilot to controller voice and data e.g text messaging\ communications via Voice Over Internet Protocol \(V o IP  Terminal Automation Mode rnization and Replacement TAMR  227 TAMR needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in a terminal airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained COA  process now is use. TAMR also needs to be able to surveil approved UAS flights within the terminal environment  Terminal Information Display System \(IDS\ and En Route Information Display System \(ERIDS  227 Information support systems need to be able to inges t to and  to rapidly display unique local procedures and associated graphics associated with UAS operations. These include pilot communications and UAV control lost ink procedures  System Wide Information Management \(SWIM  227 SWIM  must be able to rapidly mov e critical UAS information around the NAS to provide the right information to the right controller or pilot at the right time and in the desired  format  Flight Information Exchange Model \(FIXM  227 UAS flight information needs to move to and from other Air Navigation Service Providers \(ANSP\ throughout the world and new data terminology must be created that supports the collection, processing and dissemination of UAS movements through the airspace  Air Traffic Control Optimum Training Solutions \(ATCOTS  227 UAS provides new training challenges for FAA in creating new teaching curricula that contains new procedures and paradigms used to accommodate UAS safely and efficiently in the NAS. This is notable c hallenge given 


  Paper 2581 Version 2  15  the diversity and dynamic of evolving UAS technologies and missions  Future Facilities 227 FAA real estate assets may likely be affected as new UAS related systems are development and deployed. UAS NAS integration may drive additional FAA manpow er needs for positions of operations, coordination and management. This may require additional physical footprints to accommodate new positions of operations personnel and their supporting infrastructure  Next Generation Weather Processor \(NWP\ and Weathe r and Radar Processor \(WARP  227 The removal of a pilot in the cockpit also removes the ability to \223see\224 from a traditional pilot\222s perspective. Not only does this relate to the need for electronic systems for detect and avoid \(i.e., the FAR reference 91.113 for see and avoid\ but also affects many aspects of flight safety associated with detection and avoidance of hazardous weather from visual perspective of the manned cockpit. Determination of flight visibility is one such factor. It should also be noted tha t many of the UAS flying in the NAS today have a very low tolerance to hazardous weather such as turbulence and icing  Detect and Avoid \(DAA  227  Depending upon architecture and functionality, detect and avoid for UAS could have a profound impact on a variety of FAA systems and infrastructure components. DAA can be airborne based, and affect Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast \(ADS B\ In and Out and an associated Cockpit Display of Traffic Information \(CDTI\nd Traffic Alert and Collision Avoida nce System \(TCAS\ functionality, including designs for the new Next Generation Airborne Collision Avoidance Systems \(ACAS X\. GBSAA that leverages ASR 11 Surveillance Radars and Standard Terminal Automation Replacement Systems \(STARS\ or TAMR also demands automation and surveillance system modification to provide this capability. Additional future work on portable primary three dimensional \(3D\ radars integrated in the NAS will also demand close analysis  The previous overview of FAA air traffic control sys tems gives insight in the investment required to be undertaken within the F AA\222s F&E  budget It also s erve s to illustrate the pervasiveness of changes that the UAS will eventually have on air traffic control and its supporting  ATM  infrastructure   It is impo rtant to recognize these ATM/ATC changes need to be planned for, funded and deployed. It must also be recognized that these UAS related investments do not stand alone in that these changes must be done while other planned ATC system improvements are taking  place I nvestments   such as   the Surveillance Broadcast System Program  National Voice Switch, Future Cyber Security Data Communications, and others are planned under the Next Generation Air Transport System  NextGen and others  Obviously   if future UA S forecasts are to be sustained it will entail a major shift in current FAA investment in addition to the  currently planned funding of NextGen  The forecasts outlined in this paper  will require an increase in funding levels of between $500 million and $1 billion dollars per year over and above current FAA requested F&E funding levels   Doing so will greatly facilitate realization of the $30 billion per year UAS market  9   S UMMARY  From an aviation perspective, UAS represents a new and disruptive technology  challenging the staid institutions policy, procedures and technologies that exist today and have served manned aircraft well for the last fifty years or more. This UAS technology supports an incredibly wide range of uses that not only allows old challeng es to be addressed in new ways but also creates new innovative world markets for hundreds, if not thousands, of new creative applications answering the call of \223better, faster and cheaper.\224  A growing number of early adopters and innovators of aviation tech nologies are beginning to realize the significance of a growing diversity and number of UAS  This growth  is  driven by a confluence of technological developments in airframes, powerplants, sensor s command and control sys tems and information management The  economic  value  of this industry projected to be $30 billion per year supporting 300,000 American jobs by 2035   As concluded b y the study team   the realization of UAS market forecasts will be constrained  unless key investment is performed in   The NAS ATC/A TM facilities needed to be updated to support new aircraft performance and controller capabilities   Training for ATC to be ready to adopt the new unmanned aircraft performance with acceptable workload    ATC to pilot communications that have the availability  integrity confidentiality and continuity as to not heavily impact either  pilot o r  controller workload   Development of Civil standards for the c ontrol and communications data link that w ill foster low cost access for a b road  range of UAS 226  this could in clude standards of f orm, fit and function as well as covering signal in space  networked channel  access and common control exchange applications    This key investment will develop a C 3  approach to support NAS integration.  It is agreed that other areas such as of DAA are important for investment, but there are already multiple economic incentive s  following this path  


  Paper 2581 Version 2  16  R EFERENCES  1 223 Unmanned Aircraft System \(UAS\ Service Demand 2015 2 035: Literature Review and Projections of Future Usage 224  Volpe National Transportation Systems Center Cambridge MA September 2013, Version 0.1   2 AINonline, June 8, 2012, Bill Carey   3  UAV Vision Pty Ltd  2/10 Uralla Street  P ort  M acquarie  NSW 2444  Australia   4  M1 D  Thermal FLIR PTZ Camera, Sierra Pacific Corporation, Las Vegas, NV   5   Experimental Advanced Research Lidar  USGS.gov  Retrieved 8 August 2007   6  Luke Wallace  Arko Lucieer  Christopher Watson and Darren Turner 223Devel opment of a UAV LiDAR System with Application to Forest Inventory\224, Remote Sensing Volume 4 issue 6, May 25 2012 http://www.mdpi.com/2072 4292/4/6/1519  7 M ag r et t a  J o a n  223 Wh y B u s i n e s s M o d e l s M at t er  224 H ar v a r d  Business Review, pp 3 8, May 2002   B IOGRAPH IES  Chris Wargo  is a program manager and director business development for Mosaic ATM, Inc 226  a firm specializing in air traffic management systems development unmanned systems and data management systems for the aviation sector. He also leads the Autonomous  Systems Group and  served as a Chair of the System Engineering Working Group of RTCA SC 203  He has also held positions as President of Computer Network Software, Inc., Vice President and General Manager for ARINC, Inc., C3I Program Manager RC A Automated Systems and GE, as well as Systems Engineer for GTE Sylvania, Electronic Systems Group, and the US Army. In his role as a leader in aviation  next generation systems engineering, he has participated in numerous ICAO, RTCA AEEC, IEEE and IATA c ommittees and standards working groups throughout his 30 year defense and aeronautical systems career. He has presented a number of papers and chaired many industry conference sessions related to the CNS and network system programs, project and technologie s of the general, business and air transport community.   He has a BSEE from the University of Wisconsin and an MS, Systems Engineering, from the University of Southern California, and has attended the Defense Systems Management College and the Advanced Ma nagement Program at the Harvard Business Sch ool    Jason Glaneuski  is a Program Manager and Operations Research Analyst in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center \(Volpe Center\ in Cambridge, MA His  Division applies information technology and operations research disciplines to enhance the capacity, safety and security of the National Airspace System. A key component of this work is developing concepts and designing automated decision support tools a nd capabilities  that provide solutions to existing and anticipated traffic flow issues. Mr. Glaneuski has experience both performing and managing technical work in the areas of traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM and unmanned aircraft systems \(UAS\ sense and avoid SAA\, among others. Mr. Glaneuski is a graduate of Daniel Webster College in Nashua, NH, where he received his B.S in Aviation Management and Flight Operations. Prior to joining the Volpe Center in 2001, Mr. Glaneus ki worked for the FAA\222s Free Flight Program Office in Washington, D.C   Mark Strout  is an Operations Research Analyst and Project Manager in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe Center in Cambridge, MA. Mr. Strout provides project oversight and technical expertise attendant to several ATM related concepts and capabili ties, including traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM\, National Airspace System Common Reference \(NCR unmanned aircraft systems and flow based trajectory management \(FBTM\. Mr. Strout is a graduate of the University of Virgini a, where he received his B.S. in Aerospace Engineering   Gary Churc h is the President of Aviation Management Associates, Inc. a Washington, DC based aviation firm established in 1984 to provide consulting services related to the Federal Aviation Administ ration and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Mr. Church leads a team of two dozen aviation domain experts. He is a former air traffic controller and Manager of Air Traffic Control for the Air Transport Association \(now known as Airlines fo r America as well as an instrument rated pilot. Mr. Church has authored many air traffic control related articles and reports over the years as well participat ing  in numerous  key aviation related committees on behalf of FAA and others Mr. Church majored in Economics and Physics at the Un iversity of California Berkeley       
























































     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


