FDC R2R Variation Monitoring for Sensor Level Diagnosis in Tool Condition Hierarchy Jakey BLUE, Agnès ROUSSY Dept. of Science of Fabrication and Logistics EMSE-CMP Gardanne, France lan@emse.fr  roussy@emse.fr  Jacques PINATON Dept. of Process Control STMicroelectronics Rousset, France jacques.pinaton@st.com    Abstract Tool behavior modeling and diagnosis is a big challenge in modern semiconductor fabrication, in particular for the foundry and analog companies with high product-mix and complicated technology nodes. Tool condition monitoring has been practiced by implementing the FDC \(Fault Detection and Classification\ system and analyzing large amount of real-time equipment data. This paper continues the work of tool condition hierarchy where the excursions can be detected in one single overall tool indicator and are intuitively drilled down to the level of sensor groups. A R2R \(Run-to-Run\ variation monitoring technique is developed in order to correlate the tool faults with single sensor and thus completes the diagnostic gap of the hierarchy. The tool condition monitoring then becomes efficient and tool fault diagnosis can be systematically topdown Keywords — FDC; run-to-run va riation; SPC; tool condition hierarchy; tool fault diagnosis; recipe grouping; FDC profile synchronization I   I NTRODUCTION  In addition to the R&D advancement, IC makers also have to invest huge capital in equipment procurement and IT systems implementation to meet with the continuously growing demands. It is therefore very critical to optimize te tool utilization and dynamic control plans. In particular, the “big data” collected continuously during production are not efficiently analyzed to timely response and adapt to the dynamic changes. Nowadays the common practice for tool condition monitoring is to implement the Fault Detection and Identification \(FDC\ system. Current FDC practice requires data pre-treatments, including predefining temporal windows and calculating representative statistics, such as the average and variance, for every SVID \(Status Variable IDentification in each of the temporal windows. This often leads to dozens of control charts being monitored to detect the shifts/drifts in the FDC data. Apparently, it is not an efficient way for tool condition monitoring In 2002, Wang [1 a ke s a co m p r e he nsi v e sur ve y o f  machine maintenance models, which are then categorized in terms of the maintenance policies, such as the age replacement policy and failure limit policy. As can be seen in the survey maintenance models majorly aim at estimating the expected life of tools and spare parts for preventive maintenance as well as predicting the unanticipated failure events for corrective maintenance. Most of these methods are model-dependent in terms of process physics or tool characteristics, and thus the maintenance policies are usually limited in certain area with specific data source. For example, the PM system for epitaxial layer growth based on the relation of temperature to the deposited thickness he pr opor t i o na l haz a rd m o d e l for t he  lithography steppers [3 an d  th e m u ltilev e l lin e a r m o d e l f o r  chamber matching [4 o w e v e r, t h er e a re m o r e  t h a n hund red s  of process steps in current semiconductor manufacturing environments. Moreover, the components inside process tools are of rather different physics and characteristics. Deploying maintenance models and policies and keeping them up-to-date would be very challenging Thieullen et al m a ke a ra t h e r  c o m p re he nsi v e sur v e y o n  the tool health indicator and prognosis specifically applied to semiconductor manufacturing process in 2012. The topic can be generally referred to Prognostics and Health Management PHM\of functioning equipment. As can be seen in their survey, data driven techniques are usually applied based on the data collected from daily operations. Empirical behavior models are thus built to monitor the tool conditions and/or to predict the potential tool faults in the near future. These datadriven techniques share one key feature in common by analyzing historical data from processing equipment and product information in certain operations or process areas Development of generic methods/algorithms for the whole fab seems to be impossible, considering the varying operating characteristics, processing physics and even failure modes Following the concept of consolidating multiple FDC SVIDs into one single indicator based on GMV \(Generalized Moving Variance\ to monitor the tool health [6  B l ue  e t  a l  7  p ropo se a hi er ar c h i c al  t o ol  co nd i t i o n m o ni t o r i ng sc hem e  to more efficiently detect and diagnose tool faults. Fig. 1 depicts a quick concept of constructing the tool condition hierarchy and diagnosing faults via the hierarchy. The first step to build the hierarchy is to cluster the SVIDs into meaningful grouping scheme. Once the similar sensors are gathered together in one group, the idea of GMV is again used to represent the group condition. PCA \(Principal Component Analysis\ employed to generate a representative SVID from each group such that all the representatives can be consolidated into one indicator, i.e. the overall tool condition 92 978-1-4799-3944-2/14/$31.00 ©2014 IEEE ASMC 2014 


From the diagnostic point of view, the overall tool condition at the bottom is going to provide an overview of tool behavior. The hierarchy enables an intuitive breakdown of the excursion detected in the overall tool condition into the sensor groups based on its theoretical property. However, to make the hierarchy more applicable, the drilldown process should be extended to the sensor level, i.e. in terms of SVIDs [9  D e sp ite  the fact that many univariate control charts already exist as mentioned at the beginning, the diagnosis remains inefficient and nonsystematic, in particular, when one SVID can be summarized into several univariate indicators. In order to close diagnostic gap in the hierarchy, a temporal R2R \(Run-to-Run variation at sensor level is proposed in this paper to replace the conventional summarized indicators In the following section we are going to describe in details on the proposed methodology sensor level diagnosis and a case study with real data will be demonstrated II  S ENSOR L EVEL D IAGNOSIS  Tool condition can be evaluated in terms of very different data sources, such as MES \(Manufacturing Execution System FDC or even wafer metrology measurements. Among these sources, FDC data are collected continuously when wafers are processed inside the equipment and thus shall provide comprehensive information about not only the process but also the tool behavior. Therefore, most IC makers implement FDC systems in order to monitor process or equipment faults. In this research, FDC data also serves as the study vehicle and we are going to develop the sensor level diagnosis upon them Firstly we assume there are p sensors installed on one tool and thus p SVIDs X 1  X 2  X p will be collected when one wafer being processed on the tool. The collected FDC temporal data for wafer k is defined as WT k  k pn k n k n k p kk k p kk k p k k k xxx xxx xxx n kWT XXX  2,1 2 2,21,2 1 2,11,1 21 2 1  000 000#\000%\000#\000 000 000 000 000 1 where k ji x  denotes the collected FDC observation of j th SVID at i th time stamp for wafer k The number of observations, i.e the sample size, of each SVID for wafer k is n k  i 1, 2 n k  and is usually not the same from wafer to wafer Under the original framework of tool condition hierarchy the diagnosis of tool faults can be only drilled down until the sensor group level and thus the R2R variation of each sensor is proposed. Before going into the calculation of the R2R variation, there are two critical steps to proceed in advance in order to have a meaningful R2R variation. The two steps recipe family grouping and FDC profile synchronization will be introduced in the first two sub-sections followed by the concept of R2R variation Fig. 1  A quick catch of the construction and diagnosis flows of tool condition hierarchy 93 ASMC 2014  000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 


A  Recipe Family Grouping FDC temporal profiles can only be compared when they share regular patterns induced by similar recipe bodies. A recipe body should clearly define the targets \(usually referred to set-points\of process states as well as regulate the behavior of tool signals. Consequently recipes are of very different patterns given different products and technologies, and are sometimes fine-tuned according to the run-to-run information or in order to match the tool capability. In high-mix, lowvolume production environment, recipe management is a big and critical issue because IC makers have to efficiently setup appropriate recipes for operations and, at the same time alleviate the impact of changeover. Since recipes are directly related to product designs, the recipe management becomes a confidential issue and is usually under central control in the companies From the FDC data perspective, not only the temporal profiles change significantly under different recipes, but also the number of SVIDs does. Some SVIDs collected under one recipe might be removed \(or simply not collected\rom another. In order to have the fair comparison at the level of FDC temporal profiles, recipe grouping should be done beforehand such that the detected excursion won’t be simply diagnosed as the difference among recipes. In this paper, this step has been done within our industrial partner in terms of the physical design of recipes. At the same time a mathematical/statistical grouping method is under investigation to facilitate the massive monitoring B  FDC Temporal Profile Synchronization With the FDC data coming from similar recipe bodies, the comparison among wafer-to-wafer FDC temporal profiles is not yet easy. The main reason is related to the IT infrastructure Current tools cannot perfectly handle the FDC data input/output interfacing and the production process at the same time, while the first priority is surely to keep the process running correctly and stably. Also the timestamps between database servers and the tools are not well synchronized [10   This is causing missing values in FDC data and thus a DCQV Data Collection Quality Value\ measured as soon as the FDC data of one wafer FDC are collected in order to monitor the data reliability and the process stability. Another reason is related to process characteristics because the process time would vary from one wafer to another based on the process characteristic. For example, the etching process will continue until the stop layer is reached and thus the process time might be different from wafer to wafer Given the reasons above, comparison among FDC temporal profiles will suffer fundamental pattern shifting issue such that again the detected excursion might not be meaningful Therefore a synchronization of FDC temporal data is needed Dynamic Time Wrapping \(DTW\1  is a t ech n i qu e f o r  efficiently finding the alignment among shifted signals and has been used widely in many areas such as gesture recognition robotics, speech processing and manufacturing Considering two temporal series with n and m observations respectively, an n by m cost matrix, typically in terms of Euclidean or Manhattan distance, can be constructed based on all the possible alignments. An aligning path \(can be also referred to a wrapping path\has to be subject to three more constraints: boundary conditions, continuity and monotonicity  B y m i ni m i z i ng t he o v e r a l l  a l i gni ng co st vi a  d y na m i c  programming, the path can be found efficiently  Fig. 2  An example of aligning \(wrapping\path  DTW works very well if only the time shift \(on the x-axis exists between two temporal series. However, in our main problem with FDC temporal profiles, local differences on the y-axis, i.e. the numerical magnitudes, of the series often occur and this causes the DTW algorithm ineffective. For example two data points may share the same value but fall on different patterns such as one on the rising trend and another on the down slope. DTW might have the chance to align the two points together due to the identical values. Therefore, a modified algorithm, Derivative DTW \(DDTW\, is proposed 12 t o t ak e in t o  ac cou n t  th e s h ape in f o rm ation in t erm s of t h e first derivative of the temporal series. The main concept of DDTW is to replace the Euclidean/Manhattan distance in the cost matrix by the square of difference of the first derivatives between two data points Based on the characteristics of FDC temporal data, we observed that there are not only time shifts but also measurement changes. Therefore, DDTW is employed to synchronize the FDC data before calculating the R2R variation Assuming the temporal series of i th SVID across all wafers from one recipe family R are firstly collected from \(1\ and expressed as SVID i  R   000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000  2   1  2 2 2 1 2 1 2 1 1 1 2 1  in r in in r i ii r i ii i x x x xxx xxx SVID r 000"\000 000#\000%\000 000#\000"\000#\000 000 000 R 2 94 ASMC 2014 


002 002 003   2 UCL   isis L  000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000  r in inin r i ii r i ii i xxx xxx xxx SVID  2  1  2 2 2 1 2 1 2 1 1 1  000 000#\000%\000#\000 000#\000"\000#\000 000#\000"\000#\000 000 000 R 3 where max 21 r nnnn 000 where R is the collection of r wafers from the same recipe family and thus contains WT 1 WT 2 WT  r  After DDTW being applied to \(2\ we get 002 002  5  where 002\034 0 002\034  000  1\ is the smoothing constant The steady-state EWMA control limits are defined as  is the unique wafer process length after synchronization. In the following sub-section, the R2R variation will be calculated based on \(3 C  SVID Run-to-Run Variation The concept of R2R variation starts with expanding a group of FDC temporal profiles of one SVID from a two-dimensional trend chart to a three-dimensional topography by adding the third axis wafer ID in processing sequence as shown in Fig 3. The topography can thus be viewed as a two-dimensional contour in Fig. 4 as well as the data arrangement in \(3  Fig. 3  Transforming a 2-D wafer-to-wafer FDC temporal profiles of the SVID “ThrottleValve” into a 3-D topography To calculate the R2R variation, two consecutive wafers in the same recipe family are selected, for example, the WT 1 and WT 2\ in R and consequently the first two columns in \(3 are used. The variances of all pairs of observations between the two wafers, i.e  var 2 1 1 1 ii xx  var 2 2 1 2 ii xx and var 2  1  inin xx are calculated. By taking the average of these n  local variances, we get the first R2R variation of SVID i  denoted as  000 002 002 003   isis L   n j ijij rr xx n is 1 2  1  2 1,2 var 1  4 The idea of R2R variation is to capture the local changes between two consecutive wafers from time to time. From the visualized example in Fig. 4, the first local variance is calculated from the pair of observations of two consecutive wafers at the first second of the process, given the FDC sampling rate is one observation per second. If the process lasts for 327 seconds, there will be 327 local variances from these two wafers. The R2R variation is calculated by taking the average of these local variances  Process Time for One Run Wafer Run Sequence local variance for 1 st second local variance for 2 nd second local variance for 327 th second   Fig. 4  The 2-D contour of FDC temporal profiles and the calculation of local variances. The R2R variation is calculated by taking the average of these local variances D  SPC on R2R Variation In order to detect the excursion of R2R variations Exponentially Weighted Moving Average \(EWMA\ is employed. EWMA control scheme  is  w e ll k n o w n  f o r process dispersion monitoring [15 e t  Z i,k denote the EWMA statistic of the R2R variation of SVID i of wafer k  Z i,k can be calculated as  1 2 2  1  and  2 LCL   11 where 002\035 s,i and 0011 s,i are the mean and standard deviation of incontrol  2 2 is krr s, and L determines the width of the control window. For a standard Shewhart control ch d data following the normal distribution, the average run length ARL\ith 3 0011 is known to be 370.4. Since  2 2 is krr is not likely to be the normal distribution, we may follow suggestions by [13 t o use  L 2.492, 2.703, and 2.86 with 95 ASMC 2014    ki krrki ZisZ 


corresponding 001 0.05, 0.1, and 0.2, respectively, for the EWMA control scheme to obtain approximately the same ARL=370.4. In this paper, after some experiments from the actual production data, we set 001 0.05 and L 4 for a lower false alarm rate acceptable to the semiconductor manufacturing practice. The setting of the EWMA control scheme should not be fixed across all tool types and situations and should be adjusted according to the natures of the tool processes, which in turn affect the false alarm rate III  E VALUATION OF C ASE S TUDY  The FDC data to be evaluated are collected from an ETCH tool, which are the same as the second case in [7 A r o und 800 wafers of 31 SVIDs from one family of eight GATE recipes are analyzed. The FDC profiles are also synchronized by DDTW firstly. Following the hierarchical analysis in [7  w e  know there’s a big and obvious abnormal pattern in the overall tool condition as shown in Fig. 5. By looking into the conditions of four sensor groups: RF \(11 SVIDs\ temperature 3 SVIDs\, gas \(13 SVIDs\ and pressure \(4 SVIDs\, the abnormal pattern in the overall condition can be directly identified as a fault from the gas group. To save the page in presenting the results of tool condition hierarchy, we simply put the overall tool condition and the gas group condition from here. For more details of the hierarchy, please refer to [7   a Lot_125 Lot_126 Lot_127 Lot_128 Lot_130 Lot_142 Lot_145 Lo t_14 Lot_21 Lo t_125  b Lo t_125 Lo t_126 Lo t_127 Lo t_128 Lo t_130 Lo t_142 Lo t_145  Fig. 5  The simplied result from tool conditon hierarchy: \(a\ll ecth condtion; \(b\s group condtion, with EWMA control limits: UCL as green and LCL as dark red if non-negative To further classify the root causes at the sensor level in gas group, the proposed R2R variation is calculated for the 13 SVIDs. Fig. 6 firstly visualizes the contours of all 13 SVIDs and provides an overall sketch. As can be seen, except the MFCflow2 \(Mass Flow Controller\ has no significant pattern the other 12 SVIDs in gas group exhibit consistent abnormalities in accordance with the phenomenon in Fig. 5  Fig. 6  A visualized overview for controus of all 13 SVIDs in gas group where x-axis is the wafer ID and y-axis indicates the process time in one run R2R variations for these SVIDs are also calculated and monitored according to the proposed control scheme. In Fig. 7 we only demonstrate the R2R variation of MFCflow1 in contrast with MFCflow2 and others shall be monitored in the same fashion. After applying the EWMA control scheme, the R2R variation chart of MFCflow1 shows very similar pattern to the overall tool condition and gas group condition in Fig. 5\(a while the one of MFCflow2 seems not to account for this main excursion. It is known from MES that this dataset covers a complete PM cycle followed by a CM intervention for fixing the process drift. However, the process drift is not completely fixed until the end of the dataset. The big pattern here in Fig 5\(a\ is confirmed to be the period that covers the practiced PM followed by CM intervention when the tool started to collect unusual FDC profiles. It also shows that the tool condition after the CM intervention remains unstable around the upper control limit. Particularly, the mass flow controllers display totally different temporal profiles compared to the wafers processed before/after the abnormal period 96 ASMC 2014 


a  b  Fig. 7  R2R variations of \(a\ MFCflow1 and  \(b\MFCflow2, respectively IV  C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE W ORK  The main contribution of this paper is to extend the diagnosis of tool condition hierarchy into sensor level by proposing the R2R \(Run-to-Run\ variation of individual sensor Given the fact that monitoring the enormous amount of summarized indicators currently implemented in fab is inefficient and ineffective, the proposed R2R variation is based on the sensor temporal data and tries to capture/detect the variation from profile to profile To robustly monitor the R2R variation, two preliminary steps have to be done in advance recipe grouping and temporal profile synchronization, in order to avoid the false detection of excursions due to simply recipe changes or inconsistent data structures. The use-case further validates the effectiveness of R2R variation Nevertheless, recipe grouping based on physical definition will contradict against the advantage of “recipe-independent hierarchical monitoring scheme. Also data transformation via DTW or DDTW algorithm would surely cause information distortion or loss. It is our continuous goal to look for automatic recipe grouping mechanism with respect to the FDC profiles as well as to investigate the distortion after applying DDTW and improve the synchronization algorithms A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This paper has been done under the framework of INTEGRATE \(Integrated Solutions for Agile Manufacturing in High-mix Semiconductor Fabs\, an ENIAC \(European Nanoelectronics Initiative Advisory Council\ project R EFERENCES  1  H. Wang, “A Survey of Maintenance Policies of Deteriorating Systems European Journal of Operational Research vol. 139, no. 3, pp. 469-489 2002 2  G. A. Susto, A. Beghi and C. De Luca, “A Predictive Maintenance System for Silicon Epitaxial Deposition,” in Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Automation Science and Engineering Trieste, 2011, pp 262-267 3  S. Pampuri, A. Schirru, C. De Luca and G. De Nicolao, “Proportional Hazard Model with l 1 Penalization applied to Predictive Maintenance in Semiconductor Manufacturing,” in Proceedings of 6 th IEEE Conference on Automation Science and Engineering Trieste, 2011, pp. 250-255 4  A. Schirru, S. Pampuri and G. De Nicolao, “Multilevel Statistical Process Control of Asynchronous Multi-Stream Processes in Semiconductor Manufacturing,” in Proceedings of 6 th IEEE Conference on Automation Science and Engineering Toronto, 2010, pp. 57-62 5  A. Thieullen, M. Ouladsine, and J. Pinaton, “A Survey of Health Indicators and Data-driven Prognosis in Semiconductor,” in Proceedings of 8 th IFAC Symposium on Fault Detection, Supervision and Safety of Technical Processes Mexico City, Mexico, August, 2012, pp. 19-24 6  A. Chen and J. Blue, “Recipe-independent Health Indicator for Tool Predictive Maintenance and Fault Diagnosis IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 522-535, 2009 7  J. Blue, A. Thieullen, A. Roussy and J. Pinaton, “Efficient FDC based on hierarchical tool condition monitoring scheme,” in Proceedings of the 23 rd Annual SEMI Advanced Semiconductor Manufacturing Conference ASMC Saratoga Springs, USA, 2012, pp. 359-364 8  J. Blue, D. Gleispach, A. Roussy, and P. Scheibelhofer, “Tool Condition Diagnosis With a Recipe-Independent Hierarchical Monitoring Scheme IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing vol. 26 no. 1, pp 82-91, 2013 9  J. Moyne, N. Ward, and P. Hawkins, “Leveraging Advanced Process Control \(APC\ Technology in Developing Predictive Maintenance \(PdM Systems,” in Proceedings of 24 th Advanced Semiconductor Manufacturing Conference \(ASMC Saratoga Springs, USA, May, 2012 pp. 221-226   ISMI Wait Time Waste \(WTW\etrics and Methods Guidance v1.0  SEMATECH Manufacturing Method 39933, pp. 13-18   M. Müller, Information Retrieval for Music and Motion, Springer Berlin Heidelberg New York, 2007, ch. 4, pp. 69-84   E. J. Keogh and M. J. Pazzani, “Derivative dynamic time wraping,” in Proceedings of the 2001 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining Chicago, 2001, pp. 1-11   C. M. Borror, D. C. Montgomery, and G. C. Runger, “Robustness of the EWMA Control Chart to Non-normality Journal of Quality Technology vol. 31   19 99 pp  30 9 3 1 6     J. M. Lucas and M. S. Saccucci, “Exponentially Weighted Moving Average Control Schemes: Properties and Enhancements Technometrics vol. 32  1 99 0  p p 1-2 9     P. Castagliola, G. Celano and S. Fichera, “Monitoring process variability using EWMA,” Handbook of Engineering Statistics, Springer London 2006, ch. 17, pp. 291-325   D. C. Montgomery Introduction to Statistical Quality Control New Jersey: John Wiley, 2005, ch. 8, pp 385-422  97 ASMC 2014 


  The typical dynamic behavior of a contr o Figure 11  The displayed symbols hav e meaning k s Commanded signal h = Overshoot T u Dead time T a Rise time T m Overshoot time T 5 Damping time Figure 11 - Dynamic behavior of a typica With a pure model based torque control l time can be reduced significantly. As sho w the wheel receives a command \(2 mNm cycle 0 and 1. With the beginning of co n wheel will perform the torque command control cycle 2, it recognizes that it commanded torque. The internal control p a adapted. With the end of control cycle 3 th e the required torque The mean torque over the complete time b e the command and performing the com m lower than the commanded torque because o resulting from dead times and rise times The control frequency is 8 Hz so the dur a cycle is 125 ms. Depending on the definit i time is between 125 and 375 ms However, the controller used in AFW\222s isn\222t a pure model based torque contro l additional rotor angle controller. Conseque n b ehavior is differing from the dynamic b e model based torque controller  7 o ller is shown in e the following  a l co  l er, the damping w n i n Figure 12  between control n trol cycle 1 the d At the end of overshoots the a rameters will be e wheel performs etween receiving m anded torque is o f the torque loss a tion of a control i on, the response reaction wheels l ler, but has an n tly the dynamic e havior of a pure Figure 12 - Dynamic behavior based torque controller, exampla t As shown in Figure 13   the re a command \(2 mNm\ between contr o b eginning of control cycle 1 the torque command. At the end of con t that it overshoots the command e control parameters will be adapted  cycle 3 the reaction wheel perform s a constant offset. At the end of co n equal to the commanded one The offset between command cycle the torque loss resulting from dea d that in mean the reaction w h commanded torque over the whol e the command and performing t Consequently the \223virtual\224 respons e 0 ms Figure 13 - Dynamic behavior of controller, exampl Using model based controllers an d reaction wheels will relieve the s doesn\222t have to take comm u consideration. Furthermore, the A information about its actual physi c the satellite\222s onb oard data proces s controlling the reaction wheel, whi c detailed models requiring lar g Furthermore, the satellites attitude  resulting from model t   a ction wheel receives a o l cycle 0 and 1. With the wheel will perform the t rol cycle 2, it recognizes e d torque. The internal  With the end of control s the required torque with n trol cycle 5 the torque is 3 and 5 will compensate d times and rise times, so h eel will perform the e time between receiving he commanded torque e time of the controller is  AFW\222s reaction wheels atory [6  d their related features in s atellite\222s ACS, since it u nication delays into A CS always gets status c al limits. Consequently s ing unit is relieved from c h often includes running g e computing power c ontrol engineers are not 


  8 obliged to understand all details of the reaction wheels.  For example the user doesn\222t have to know anything about the friction behavior, because the wheel controller compensates the effect. As a consequence the reaction wheel will be no longer the design driver for the attitudes system control frequency. The control cycle can be adapted to the sensor system \(e.g. the star sensor\. Star sensor update rates are typically in the range of 1 Hz. Hence the command frequency for the reaction wheel can be also reduced to 1 Hz and the overall computing system will be relieved 4  I N O RBIT P ERFORMANCE OF THE ACS AND T HE S MART C OMPONENTS  In this paper, the failure of one wheel is given as an example for the redundancy performance. Since the four reaction wheels are arranged in a tetr ahedron configuration, the failure of one wheel can be compensated by the remaining three wheels. In order to evaluate the performance and agility of the satellite bus in case one wheel is not active, a target pointing manoeuvre with four and three wheels is considered in the following. In Figure 14, the wheel states for these maneuvers are plotted It becomes obvious that the applied acceleration and deceleration match very well and so does the maximum slew rate of 0.5 deg/s. The slightly increased time for the slews \(1\d \(3\or the three wheel configuration results from a larger slew angle due to the distance between the Sun and the considered target at the specific manoeuvre time              Hence, the conclusion can be drawn that the agility of the satellite is not influenced by the missing wheel and therewith the redundancy performance meets all requirements As discussed in section 3, the reaction wheel reboots and reloads the operation parameters from the EEPROM, if irregularities are detected during comparison of the two parameter sets in the RAM. Single Bit errors occur quite regularly in orbit. The wheel automatically reboots itself and its status is communicated to the ACS, which would then not use that specific wheel in this control cycle. If those errors would not be logged, they would not be visible in normal TM data, because of a low TM frequency. The ACS and the wheels handle this error autonomously If loading of the wheel operational parameters from the EEPROM fails, default parameters will be set. Operating the wheel under that condition can lead to the failure of the wheel. Therefore, if the loading fails, the wheel will enter a dedicated error mode which can only be exited on telecommand 5  S UMMARY  AFWs smart components such as the family of reaction wheels provide many advantages compared to regular attitude control components and are suitable for many small satellite missions              0 7200 14400 21600 28800 36000 4320 0 0 0.5 1 RW 1 RW 2 RW 3 RW 4 4 wheels in control loop RW 1 not in control loop Relative time, s In Loop Not In Loop 2400 2800 3200 3600 4000 4400 4800 0 0.2 0.4 X Y Z Relative time, s Satellite rate| deg/s 1 2 3 37600 38000 38400 38800 39200 39600 40000 0 0.2 0.4 X Y Z Relative time, s Satellite rate| deg/s 1 2 3 Figure 14 \226 Wheel rate dur ing the nadir pointing manoeuvres with four wheels \(left\ and three wheels \(right, TET-1 orbit data 1\.. Slew to target on Earth, \(2\... Tracking o f tar g et on Earth    3  Slew back to Sun 


  9 The smart component approach yields main advantages considering development time and cost, since tasks hitherto performed by the on board computers are now integrated in the component itself. Furthermore, the overall system design is more robust and reliable due to the integrated model based controller and the fault detection mechanisms Integrated fault-detection mechanisms have already shown that they provide a reliable operation of the ACS R EFERENCES   F W s off i cial aeros pace com pon e n t datas h eets  f o r  RW1, RW90, RW150, RW250, AGS and MFS  A S12006, Sm art G N  C C o m pon e n t s f or Sm art  Satellites - Anja Nicolai , Antje Deckert, Christian Raschke and Stephan Stoltz, AAS G&C Conference Feb 3-8, 2012 Breckenridge, Colorado 3 m art reactio n  w h eel s cap ab ilities a n d ad v a n t ag e s  Stoltz S., Raschke C., Courtois K., 1st International SPACE World Conference 2010, 2-4-November 2010 Frankfurt/Main, Germany \(2010  W  90, a s m art reaction w h eel \226 P r og res s f r o m B I R D to TET-1 - Stoltz S., Raschke C., Courtois K, 8 th IAA Symposium on small satellites for earth observation\224; 4-8 April 2011, Berlin Germany \(2011 5 d v a n ced Se n s o r s a n d  Actu ato r s f o r S m all Satelli tes  Roemer S., Raschke C., Stoltz S, 28 th International Symposium on Space Technology and Science, 5-10 June 2011, Okinawa Japan \(2011  m art G N  C  C o m pon e n t s 226 on g roun d an d i n o rbi t  Experiences from the TET-1 Satellite - Stoltz S., Raschke C., Deckert A., Nicolai A., 34 th IEEE Aerospace Conference, 2 \226 9 March 2013, Big Sky, Montana  B IOGRAPHY  Stephan Stoltz received his Diplom a in transportation aerospace\ engineering from Technical University of Berlin in 2007. He has been with Astro- und Feinwerktechnik Adlershof GmbH for more than six years. He has been systems en gineer for the DEOS Client Phase B study. Prior to that, among others he was responsible for product development and product management of Astrofein\222s attitude control components e.g. reaction wheels, gyro systems  Christian Raschke received his Diploma in aerospace engineering from Technical University of Berlin in 2007 Since then, he has been with Astro- und Feinwerktechnik Adlershof GmbH, working as an attitude control specialist. During the TET-1 project, he has helped designing TET-1\222s attitude control system and has been the lead attitude control testing engineer. Also, he is involved in Astrofein\222s ACS product development. He is currently working on his PHD, focusing on a new type of reaction wheel Anja Nicolai received a Diploma in aerospace engineering from Technical University of Berlin in 2011 She has been with Astro- und Feinwerktechnik Adlershof GmbH since then as an engi neer in the development department. Her work focuses on attitude control and system engineering. Among others, she worked with the Attitude Control Test Facilty and as an assistant engineer for the ISS payload NightPod                      


                   
example of such a computation is PageRank. The MapReduceScatter primitive, mod eled after MPI ReduceScatter is aimed to support such use cases in an optimized manner Map-ReduceScatter gets rid of the inefficiency of simple broadcast ofing all the data to all the workers. Another alternative approach is to perform a join of loop i nvariant input data and loop variant data us ing an additional MapReduce step. However, this requires all th e data to be transported over the network from Map tasks to Reduce tasks, making the computation highly inefficient Map-ReduceScatter primitive is still a work in progress and we are planning on includi ng more information about it in our future publications X C ONCLUSIONS  We introduced Map-Collectives, collective communication operations for MapReduce in spired by MPI collectives as a set of high level primitiv es that encapsulate some of the common iterative MapReduce application patterns. MapCollectives improve the co mmunication and computation performance of the applications by enabling highly optimized group communication across th e workers, getting rid of unnecessary/redundant steps, and by enabling the frameworks to use a poly-algorithm approach based on the use case. MapCollectives also improve the usability of the MapReduce frameworks by providing abst ractions that closely resemble the natural application patterns. They also decrease the implementation burden on the developers by providing optimized substitutions for certain steps of the MapReduce model. We envision a future where many MapReduce and iterative MapReduce frameworks support a common set of portable Map-Collectives and consider this work as a step in that direction In this paper, we defined Map-AllGather and MapAllReduce Map-Collectives and implemented MultiDimensional Scaling and K-means Clustering applications using these operations. We also presented the H-Collectives library for Hadoop, which is a drop-in Map-Collectives library that can be used with existing MapReduce applications with only minimal modification. We also presented a MapCollectives implementation for Twister4Azure iterative MapReduce framework as well. MDS and K-means applications were used to evaluate the performance of MapCollectives on Hadoop and on Twister4Azure, depicting up to 33% and 50% speedups over the non-collectives implementations by getting rid of the communication and coordination overheads A CKNOWLEDGMENT  We would like to thank colleagues and members of the Digital Science Center at Indiana University for helpful discussions and contributions to Twister4Azure and the present work. We gratefully acknowledge support from Microsoft for Azure Cloud Academic Resources Allocation, which was critical for our experiments. This project is in part supported by National Science Foun dation CAREER Award OCI1149432. Thilina Gunarathne was supported by a fellowship sponsored by Persistent Systems R EFERENCES   
 
T. Gunarathne, B. Zhang, T.L. Wu, and J. Qiu, "Portable Parallel Programming on Cloud and HPC: Scientific Applications of Twister4Azure," Proc. Fourth IE EE International Conference on Utility and Cloud Computing \(UCC\4, 5-8 Dec. 2011, doi 10.1109/UCC.2011.23  T. Gunarathne, B. Zhang, T.-L. Wu, and J. Qiu, "Scalable parallel computing on clouds using Twister4Azure iterative MapReduce Future Generation Computer Systems vol. 29, pp. 1035-1048, Jun 2013  J. Pjesivac-Grbovic, T. Angskun, G Bosilca, G. E. Fagg, E. Gabriel and J. J. Dongarra, "Performance analysis of MPI collective operations," Proc. 19th IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium, 2005 doi:10.1109/IPDPS.2005.335  J.Ekanayake, H.Li, B.Zhang, T.Gunarathne, S.Bae, J.Qiu, et al Twister: A Runtime for iterative MapReduce," Proc. First International Workshop on MapReduce and its Applications at ACM HPDC, 2010,pp 810-818, doi 10.1145/1851476.1851593  Y. Bu, B. Howe, M. Balazinska, an d M. D. Ernst, "HaLoop: Efficient Iterative Data Processing on Large Clusters," Proc. VLDB Endow vol. 3, pp. 285-296, Sep 2010  MPI Forum, "MPI: A Message-Passing Interface Standard, Version  Sep 2012 Available http://www.m pi forum.org/docs/mpi-3 0/mpi30-report.pdf  E. Chan, M. Heimlich, A. Pur kayastha, and R. van de Geijn Collective communication: theory, practice, and experience Concurrency and Computation: Practice and Experience, vol. 19, pp 1749-1783, 2007  J. B. Kruskal and M. Wish, Multidimensional Scaling: Sage Publications Inc., 1978  R. W. Hockney, "The communication challenge for MPP: Intel Paragon and Meiko CS-2," Parallel Computing, vol. 20, pp. 389-398 1994  J. Ekanayake, T. Gunarathne and J. Qiu, "Cloud Technologies for Bioinformatics Applications," Parallel and Distributed Systems, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 22 pp. 998-1011, 2011  S.H. Bae, J. Y. Choi J. Qiu, and G. C. Fox, "Dimension reduction and visualization of large high-dimensional data via interpolation," Proc 19th ACM International Symposium on High Performance Distributed Computing, 2010, pp 203-214, doi:10.1145/1851476.1851501  J. de Leeuw, "Convergence of the majorization method for multidimensional scaling," Journal of Classification, vol. 5, pp. 163180, 1988  S. Lloyd, "Least squares quantization in PCM," Information Theory IEEE Transactions on, vol. 28 pp. 129-137, 1982  J. Dean and S. Ghemawat, "MapReduce: simplified data processing on large clusters," Commun. ACM vol. 51, pp. 107-113, 2008  ASF, "Apache Hadoop  http://hadoop.apache.org/core/. \(retrieved: Mar 2014  ASF, "Hadoop Distributed File System http://hadoop.apache.org/hdfs  retrieved: Mar 2014  Z. Bingjing, R. Yang, W. Tak-L on, J. Qiu, A. Hughes, and G. Fox Applying Twister to Scientific Applications," Proc. Second IEEE International Conference on Cloud Computing Technology and Science \(CloudCom\ pp 25-32, Dec 2010, doi 10.1109/CloudCom.2010.37  Microsoft, "Microsoft Daytona http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/daytona/. \(ret: Mar 2014  M. Zaharia, M. Chowdhury, M. J. Franklin, S. Shenker, and I. Stoica Spark: Cluster Computing with Working Sets," 2nd USENIX conference on Hot Topics in Cloud Computing \(HotCloud '10 Boston, 2010   
245 


  Paper 2581 Version 2  11  These nine attribu tes have been used in this study to define a limited set of business models for civil use of UAS as a means of demonstrating the utility of business modeling Each of these attributes illustrates  a particular application or grouping of applications for use  of UAS.  Multiple current and near future applications are being considered, including    1  D elivery of cargo in remote areas 226  UAS offer efficiencies in terms of access, productivity timeliness, and potentially service quality   2  P olice operations 226  UAS use in DoD surveillance operations has created a market opportunity for similar use in civilian markets   3  Power line and pipeline inspection 226  Long distance detailed inspections requiring extensive hovering or repeated fly bys for inspection of worn components are well suited for execution with UAS   4  Agricultural use for management of crops and livestock 226  A UAS fitted with visual and IR sensors can fly over farm fields and locate pests weeds, and diseases, significantly improving the application of pesticides a t reduced loading to the crops and soil   5  Augmented flight assistance for manned flight 226  Business opportunities in this category range from transfer of technology from UAS experience to the cockpit to provide the pilot with a pilot\222s assistant to Optionall y Piloted Aircraft \(OPA\ where the aircraft is capable of human piloted and autonomous flight   and  6  Communications media relay 226  A UAS stays on station and provides the ability to connect users with a ground station for distribution of information to a lar ger customer base   Business model canvases have been created for each of the six applications cited above.  Fictitious companies were used; however, plausible circumstances, company relationships, and market opportunities were generated  to maximize relevance  Technology Transfer  The U.S. Government, especially through the D oD has made a significant investment to produce unmanned aircraft While less reliable than civilian certified manned aircraft these flying platforms are primaril y used to replace manned missions where risks are high or to provide an \223eye in the sky\224 extending the reconnaissance capabilities of the soldier on the ground. Long loiter times for sensors have proven their worth in battle areas. Patrol capabilities to s eek and detect threats have significantly improved both the vehicles and the sensors they carry  The market value is in the applications, not the aerial platform. The technology transfer that is needed is the adaptation of military technology for civilian  applications the freeing up of flight restrictions to stimulate application development, and the generation of revenue in the private sector through delivery of new ways of gathering information and converting that information for commercial use 227 whether  to reduce cost of existing activities or create new opportunities  Technology transfer can be divided into two major categories:  the transfer of aviation technology to manned flight, and the transfer of sensor technologies for adaptation in the civil mar ket  Aviation Technology 227 this is mainly  technology deployed in avionics  i.e systems that control flight, provide navigation, and support systems monitoring  Some examples of short term technology transfer opportunities include   Small autopilots that can be adapted for use in general aviation aircraft to improve performance and offer value added features at lower cost. The technology transfer is geared toward adapting autonomous flight opportunities from UASs to general aviation a ircraft   Sense and avoid technologies could aid general aviation safety, since most general aviation aircraft do not carry collision avoidance systems   Fuel and engine management systems used for optimizing loiter can be added to a Pilot Assistant for man ned aircraft  Autonomy must pass a major hurdle, that of attaining what the Air Force calls \223certifiable trust in autonomy.\224 The processes for certification are an area of joint collaboration between the military and civil sectors. New methods of Verifica tion and Validation \(V&V\ will be needed, and this V&V must be certifiably reliable, meaning there are scientific and engineering processes to prove performance  Sensor Technology 227 Electro optical video and IR, synthetic aperture radars, ground penetrating  radars, laser targeting systems make up the suite of current sensors. T he trend is to  produce the same or better performance with less system weight systems. This is coupled with the use of signal and information processing to improve the product sensing  for the operator. Approximately 80 percent of the commercial market will be realized in small UASs, where weight is a key factor. The vast majority of the users of the information the sensors capture will not be for a warfighter mission Therefore, inform ation presentation in usable forms will be essential to commercial success  Mapping technologies will need to be adapted to accept UAS derived information. The fight track, the sensor data and the underlying mapping must merge in order to realize the ben efits of sensor payloads on UAS. The technology transfer is a combination of information registry and visualization coupled with greater virtual reality 


  Paper 2581 Version 2  12  applications, where information is presented with the fundamental concept that the viewer is there, see ing what the UAS platform is enabling the sensor to detect  Commercialization Benefits 227 The transition from military and Government use to commercial use of UAS represents a new aviation industry. While the initial market will be in producing the flying pl atform and its sensors, the longer term market is in the information the sensors produce. When coupled with detailed mapping information through a geographical information system \(GIS new opportunities are created, from the farmer or rancher, to the larg e timber company, to water management authorities, to any case where a business involves land use  While most of the UAS industry is focused on a derivative of current military uses for security and police operations the civil industry is looking to use the UAS as a platform to produce revenue from the data derived through the sensors  Taking a longer view, the benefits are clear   Lower labor costs to accomplish tasks that are now performed by manned flight     Lower labor costs through a faster way to aut onomously gather information needed     Lower labor costs in land use field surveys and management    Greater use of information to manage application of water, fertilizers, pesticides, timing of crop harvests and management to produce greater yields \(from cor n to timber    Improvements in water management and allocation through use of GIS technologies paired with UAS sensor information    Reduced cost of environmental oversight and enforcement    Improved public safety through surveillance    Improved flight safety t hrough technology transfer from UAS to manned flight operations    Recognition of UAS flights as a data collection tool with the market driven by the information gained   Ease of operation to attain the data through information processing and presentation   The commercialization of UAS technology  and its capability to collect surveillance information  is limited by constraints imposed by the federal regulatory actions aviation\ and by general citizen concern over law enforcement applications of surveillance a nd the right to privacy. Both of these barriers will be overcome, but not without an impact on the economics of UAS. This delay will likely defer commercialization benefits and present additional obstacles to market entry  6  M ARKET B ARRIERS  Legal and Regulatory Policies and Procedures  The anticipated expansion of UAS into a myriad of public private, and commercial missions routinely using the national airspace alongside other air traffic has highlighted both the UAS operational needs and the public co ncerns associated with those operations. The Federal Aviation Authority\222s FAA's   Interim Operational Approval Guidance 08 01  gives the rules for gaining approval to operate UAS in the NAS and the operating limitations that are imposed on those flights. In  general, the rules for manned aircraft governing vehicle airworthiness, pilots maintenance, and use of the airspace have been directly applied to UAS operations with the caveat that relaxation of some of these rules may be granted if FAA accepts an opera tor proposed safety case using the regulatory process known as Alternate Methods of Compliance." Lacking that the UA S  must meet equivalent certification standards usually experimental category\, and be flown by a licensed pilot. Except in Class A airspa ce, UAS must be flown in VMC in sight of the pilot or, if a chase plane is used, in sight of the observer. UAS are to be maintained like a manned aircraft. All UAS flights in the NAS require a Certificate of Waiver or Authorization \(COA\, typically valid f or up to a year, obtained by submitting an application and receiving specific approval by the FAA  T he time and cost barriers these policies and procedures place in the way of achieving UAS benefits  are well documented Efforts are under way at FAA and th rough the RTCA Special Committee s  203  and 228  to create standards specifically for UAS of varying size and sophistication and for realistic operating procedures which would permit using their unique capabilities while still safeguarding the public Once in  place, these new standards will eliminate the time consuming COA process  Social Issues  Even when these technical and safety concerns are overcome, there is still a growing barrier to widespread use of UAS in the NAS brought on by the public's privacy con cerns. The most widely used mission for UAS is ISR, or more simply, surveillance. As many missions provide low altitude, high resolution surveillance, the privacy rights of citizens caught collaterally in the surveillance, must be protected  Articles in th e popular press have conjured up visions of thousands of prying eyes in the sky watching every move a person makes and continuously advising the authorities of individual's locations and activities. Even though a pro UAS bill was recently passed mandating the FAA to integrate UAS into the NAS by 2015   the government will also have to deal with the public's concern over privacy and the fears created by seeing numerous drones overhead, often at low altitude, regardless of how noble the purpose of their missio n  


  Paper 2581 Version 2  13  Environmental Impacts  Many proposed UAS missions identified earlier would place the vehicles in close proximity to persons who are not directly involved in the UAS operation. Civilian store deliver ies for example, could require a package drop off in cl ose vicinity to populated areas  The noise produced by the UAV being close to people could mean the difference between the success or failure of this type of business  Helicopters are notoriously loud noise producers Additionally, their blades are hazardous to be around. The wind produced by their hovering lift can also be strong enough to damage articles that are not either heavy or tied down. The fumes and gaseous e missions produced by the powerplants will be subject to the same environmental scrutiny  of all other transportation appliances and vehicles  Larger payloads and long endurance can be achieved quietly using lighter than air \(LTA\ or hybrid LTA vehicles with  multi mode propulsion capabilities. The lift required to keep large payloads aloft is not obtained aerodynamically, but through buoyancy, which is completely silent. This lift also produces no emissions, so if the thrust can be hybrid electric, most envir onmental concerns can be overcome.  A hybrid turbine electric propulsion system may also be capable of providing low noise periods of flight before and after which batteries are re charged.  The basic idea is that a battery powered ducted fan eliminates th e need for noisy gearboxes to operate during a noise sensitive leg of flight D Star Engineering is prototyping such a capability with funding from the I ntelligent Advanced research Projects Agency \(I ARPA   Other  There are other more subtle potential barri ers to acceptance of widespread use of UAS in the NAS Cost is still a significant factor for all but recreational radio controlled models. The costs of even experimental certification, pilot and mechanic training, salaries for pilots, mechanics, and other  mission specialists needed to carry out a drone mission, and the still relatively poor accident record for UAS, which can result in total loss of the expensive vehicles, are all substantial  Insurance costs for UAS operations over cities and towns are st ill being determined as actuarial data is slowly accumulated.  No matter how quiet or clean it is, the sight of a large vehicle passing overhead where none had been before may  draw complaints and political pressure to restrict or ban their operations  This  is not to suggest that these barriers cannot be overcome to the benefit of many domestic civil and military UAS missions. The concerns need to be understood and addressed so that their potential to stop the use of UAS is neutralized The technical barrier s are much simpler to overcome than the political and social ones, so continuous public education about the benefits of UAS use and the measures taken to ensure the safety and privacy of the general public is essential  7   UAS  F UTURE F ORECASTS  From resourc es reviewed during the study, the team developed the two forecasts: one for the military and public growth of  UAS  Figure 5  and one for the growth in civil use UAS  Figure 6  Under the FAA perspective   the definition of \223public\224 means federal agencies, s tate and local government organization \(including law enforcement and public universities These curves represent market 223demand\224 projections   Figure 5 2015 2035 Forecast for UAS DoD and Public  UAS   Figure 6 2015 2035 Forecast for Total Public and  Commercial UAS  8   C ONSTRAINTS AND I NFLUENCES ON UAS  T ECHNOLOGY  The technical team participating in the study  identified  listing of the top factors  that most likely will constrain UAS growth   These factors are  integrated functions drawn from the study areas when view ed as total system. The top six were determined to be of the most interest   Communication, Command and Control  needs to ensure pilot operators and air traffic controllers have clear, concise, and timely communications  


  Paper 2581 Version 2  14   Flight i nformation and processing   Presentation and projection of flight profiles   Real time operational information   Managing both pilot operator and air traffic controller workloads   Procedural processes supported by enhanced automation capabilities   Control sector complexity and management   Separation a ssurance   Airspace d esign and p rocedures   Investment in resolving these constraints  will drive the rate of adoption in civil UAS operations in the NAS One p art of the investment will be driven by the FAA\222s \223F acilities and Equipment\224 F&E Budget over  the next ten years Another part will be driven by defense and federal investment  in R&D  The remaining part will be driven by private investment seeking to develop profitable supplie r s and manufacturing firms of UAS Unfortunately   private investment will not fully launch until there is a clear indication of the public investment into implementing the requisite air traffic management  and air traffic control  ATM/ATC changes into the NAS infrastructure and there i s a common  approach through avionic standards in UA V  equipage   It is expected that avionic standards would lower the end user costs The impact on NAS infrastructure is the outline in the following subsection  Today\222s Air Traffic Control System  Today\222s air traffic control system is built around four basic pillars. These are communications, navigation, surveillance and infrastructure. The mortar holding these pillars together is aviation policy, rules and procedures  The FAA Air Traffic Organizat ion \(ATO\ has identified over 25 FAA procedural orders and notices that will need to be revised to accommodate routine  UAS operations in the NAS. This does not include advisory and informational materials that need to be developed and briefed to air traffi c controllers, pilots and other aviation stakeholders Additionally NAS investments to accommodate UAS efforts and associated costs must extend  beyond training requirements and procedural developments to include modification of infrastructure to permit an d to optimize efficiency and safety of UAS operations in the NAS  The majority of UAS operating in the NAS today are predominantly operated by the DoD. They were not designed with NAS compatibility in mind but rather to meet military mission needs. It is e xpected future commercial UAS will be designed and operated much more along the lines of manned aircraft. For example, current DoD UAS do not have Flight Management Systems and associated NAS aeronautical database and cannot be program m ed to fly approved F AA instrument procedures such as an instrument landing system \(ILS\ approach. Future commercial UAS operating in the NAS will need have integrated avionics systems and NAS capabilities similar to those of manned aircraft. However, unique challenges associa ted with UAS will remain and drive functional changes across many NAS project and programs. Some of these anticipated drivers or changes are listed by FAA program area below  En Route Automation Modernization \(ERAM 227 ERAM will be impacted by the need to be able to accept and process and display lengthy and complex UAS flight plans that include automated flight profile contingencies to the air traffic controller. This includes the ability to display a 20 minute planned route of flight on a controller\222s displa y suite  ERAM needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in an en route center airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained  COA  process now is in use  Nati onal Voice System \(NVS  227 Future air traffic control voice switching systems must be able to provide timely and direct pilot to controller voice and data e.g text messaging\ communications via Voice Over Internet Protocol \(V o IP  Terminal Automation Mode rnization and Replacement TAMR  227 TAMR needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in a terminal airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained COA  process now is use. TAMR also needs to be able to surveil approved UAS flights within the terminal environment  Terminal Information Display System \(IDS\ and En Route Information Display System \(ERIDS  227 Information support systems need to be able to inges t to and  to rapidly display unique local procedures and associated graphics associated with UAS operations. These include pilot communications and UAV control lost ink procedures  System Wide Information Management \(SWIM  227 SWIM  must be able to rapidly mov e critical UAS information around the NAS to provide the right information to the right controller or pilot at the right time and in the desired  format  Flight Information Exchange Model \(FIXM  227 UAS flight information needs to move to and from other Air Navigation Service Providers \(ANSP\ throughout the world and new data terminology must be created that supports the collection, processing and dissemination of UAS movements through the airspace  Air Traffic Control Optimum Training Solutions \(ATCOTS  227 UAS provides new training challenges for FAA in creating new teaching curricula that contains new procedures and paradigms used to accommodate UAS safely and efficiently in the NAS. This is notable c hallenge given 


  Paper 2581 Version 2  15  the diversity and dynamic of evolving UAS technologies and missions  Future Facilities 227 FAA real estate assets may likely be affected as new UAS related systems are development and deployed. UAS NAS integration may drive additional FAA manpow er needs for positions of operations, coordination and management. This may require additional physical footprints to accommodate new positions of operations personnel and their supporting infrastructure  Next Generation Weather Processor \(NWP\ and Weathe r and Radar Processor \(WARP  227 The removal of a pilot in the cockpit also removes the ability to \223see\224 from a traditional pilot\222s perspective. Not only does this relate to the need for electronic systems for detect and avoid \(i.e., the FAR reference 91.113 for see and avoid\ but also affects many aspects of flight safety associated with detection and avoidance of hazardous weather from visual perspective of the manned cockpit. Determination of flight visibility is one such factor. It should also be noted tha t many of the UAS flying in the NAS today have a very low tolerance to hazardous weather such as turbulence and icing  Detect and Avoid \(DAA  227  Depending upon architecture and functionality, detect and avoid for UAS could have a profound impact on a variety of FAA systems and infrastructure components. DAA can be airborne based, and affect Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast \(ADS B\ In and Out and an associated Cockpit Display of Traffic Information \(CDTI\nd Traffic Alert and Collision Avoida nce System \(TCAS\ functionality, including designs for the new Next Generation Airborne Collision Avoidance Systems \(ACAS X\. GBSAA that leverages ASR 11 Surveillance Radars and Standard Terminal Automation Replacement Systems \(STARS\ or TAMR also demands automation and surveillance system modification to provide this capability. Additional future work on portable primary three dimensional \(3D\ radars integrated in the NAS will also demand close analysis  The previous overview of FAA air traffic control sys tems gives insight in the investment required to be undertaken within the F AA\222s F&E  budget It also s erve s to illustrate the pervasiveness of changes that the UAS will eventually have on air traffic control and its supporting  ATM  infrastructure   It is impo rtant to recognize these ATM/ATC changes need to be planned for, funded and deployed. It must also be recognized that these UAS related investments do not stand alone in that these changes must be done while other planned ATC system improvements are taking  place I nvestments   such as   the Surveillance Broadcast System Program  National Voice Switch, Future Cyber Security Data Communications, and others are planned under the Next Generation Air Transport System  NextGen and others  Obviously   if future UA S forecasts are to be sustained it will entail a major shift in current FAA investment in addition to the  currently planned funding of NextGen  The forecasts outlined in this paper  will require an increase in funding levels of between $500 million and $1 billion dollars per year over and above current FAA requested F&E funding levels   Doing so will greatly facilitate realization of the $30 billion per year UAS market  9   S UMMARY  From an aviation perspective, UAS represents a new and disruptive technology  challenging the staid institutions policy, procedures and technologies that exist today and have served manned aircraft well for the last fifty years or more. This UAS technology supports an incredibly wide range of uses that not only allows old challeng es to be addressed in new ways but also creates new innovative world markets for hundreds, if not thousands, of new creative applications answering the call of \223better, faster and cheaper.\224  A growing number of early adopters and innovators of aviation tech nologies are beginning to realize the significance of a growing diversity and number of UAS  This growth  is  driven by a confluence of technological developments in airframes, powerplants, sensor s command and control sys tems and information management The  economic  value  of this industry projected to be $30 billion per year supporting 300,000 American jobs by 2035   As concluded b y the study team   the realization of UAS market forecasts will be constrained  unless key investment is performed in   The NAS ATC/A TM facilities needed to be updated to support new aircraft performance and controller capabilities   Training for ATC to be ready to adopt the new unmanned aircraft performance with acceptable workload    ATC to pilot communications that have the availability  integrity confidentiality and continuity as to not heavily impact either  pilot o r  controller workload   Development of Civil standards for the c ontrol and communications data link that w ill foster low cost access for a b road  range of UAS 226  this could in clude standards of f orm, fit and function as well as covering signal in space  networked channel  access and common control exchange applications    This key investment will develop a C 3  approach to support NAS integration.  It is agreed that other areas such as of DAA are important for investment, but there are already multiple economic incentive s  following this path  


  Paper 2581 Version 2  16  R EFERENCES  1 223 Unmanned Aircraft System \(UAS\ Service Demand 2015 2 035: Literature Review and Projections of Future Usage 224  Volpe National Transportation Systems Center Cambridge MA September 2013, Version 0.1   2 AINonline, June 8, 2012, Bill Carey   3  UAV Vision Pty Ltd  2/10 Uralla Street  P ort  M acquarie  NSW 2444  Australia   4  M1 D  Thermal FLIR PTZ Camera, Sierra Pacific Corporation, Las Vegas, NV   5   Experimental Advanced Research Lidar  USGS.gov  Retrieved 8 August 2007   6  Luke Wallace  Arko Lucieer  Christopher Watson and Darren Turner 223Devel opment of a UAV LiDAR System with Application to Forest Inventory\224, Remote Sensing Volume 4 issue 6, May 25 2012 http://www.mdpi.com/2072 4292/4/6/1519  7 M ag r et t a  J o a n  223 Wh y B u s i n e s s M o d e l s M at t er  224 H ar v a r d  Business Review, pp 3 8, May 2002   B IOGRAPH IES  Chris Wargo  is a program manager and director business development for Mosaic ATM, Inc 226  a firm specializing in air traffic management systems development unmanned systems and data management systems for the aviation sector. He also leads the Autonomous  Systems Group and  served as a Chair of the System Engineering Working Group of RTCA SC 203  He has also held positions as President of Computer Network Software, Inc., Vice President and General Manager for ARINC, Inc., C3I Program Manager RC A Automated Systems and GE, as well as Systems Engineer for GTE Sylvania, Electronic Systems Group, and the US Army. In his role as a leader in aviation  next generation systems engineering, he has participated in numerous ICAO, RTCA AEEC, IEEE and IATA c ommittees and standards working groups throughout his 30 year defense and aeronautical systems career. He has presented a number of papers and chaired many industry conference sessions related to the CNS and network system programs, project and technologie s of the general, business and air transport community.   He has a BSEE from the University of Wisconsin and an MS, Systems Engineering, from the University of Southern California, and has attended the Defense Systems Management College and the Advanced Ma nagement Program at the Harvard Business Sch ool    Jason Glaneuski  is a Program Manager and Operations Research Analyst in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center \(Volpe Center\ in Cambridge, MA His  Division applies information technology and operations research disciplines to enhance the capacity, safety and security of the National Airspace System. A key component of this work is developing concepts and designing automated decision support tools a nd capabilities  that provide solutions to existing and anticipated traffic flow issues. Mr. Glaneuski has experience both performing and managing technical work in the areas of traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM and unmanned aircraft systems \(UAS\ sense and avoid SAA\, among others. Mr. Glaneuski is a graduate of Daniel Webster College in Nashua, NH, where he received his B.S in Aviation Management and Flight Operations. Prior to joining the Volpe Center in 2001, Mr. Glaneus ki worked for the FAA\222s Free Flight Program Office in Washington, D.C   Mark Strout  is an Operations Research Analyst and Project Manager in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe Center in Cambridge, MA. Mr. Strout provides project oversight and technical expertise attendant to several ATM related concepts and capabili ties, including traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM\, National Airspace System Common Reference \(NCR unmanned aircraft systems and flow based trajectory management \(FBTM\. Mr. Strout is a graduate of the University of Virgini a, where he received his B.S. in Aerospace Engineering   Gary Churc h is the President of Aviation Management Associates, Inc. a Washington, DC based aviation firm established in 1984 to provide consulting services related to the Federal Aviation Administ ration and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Mr. Church leads a team of two dozen aviation domain experts. He is a former air traffic controller and Manager of Air Traffic Control for the Air Transport Association \(now known as Airlines fo r America as well as an instrument rated pilot. Mr. Church has authored many air traffic control related articles and reports over the years as well participat ing  in numerous  key aviation related committees on behalf of FAA and others Mr. Church majored in Economics and Physics at the Un iversity of California Berkeley       
























































     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


