Characterising User Targeting For In-App Mobile Ads Imdad Ullah   Roksana Boreli   Mohamed Ali Kaafar    and Salil S Kanhere   The University of New South Wales Australia  National ICT Australia  INRIA France Email  imdad.ullah roksana.boreli dali.kaafar salilk@cse.unsw.edu.au  Abstract Targeted advertising is a growing area of interest in both business and research community In mobile communications related research works focus on the collection of userês personal information by the mobile apps protection against such data collection and the implications of additional trafìc generated by the ads on the mobile device resource utilization In this work we present a novel analysis of targeted advertising in the Google AdMob advertising network and show insights about the relevance of Google user proìles and the categories of apps used on the in-app ads served on smartphones We deìne the classes of ads based on the match between received ads and the app contextual ads and Google AdMob userês proìle targeted ads Our analysis reveals that for all comparable experiments the proportion of targeted ads is in all cases higher than the proportion of contextual ads Moreover blocking the targeting disabling targeting in an AdMob user proìle settings results in a signiìcant drop in the number of received ads with some experimental instances receiving no ads at all Overall the number of targeted ads is comparatively lower than the number of generic ads Although this could be partially due to the limited size of ad pools at the time of our experiments there is also an indication that although userês information is collected the subsequent use of such information for ads is still low We present additional insights on the comparison between Google AdMob and other mobile advertising networks and illustrate the dominance of the former in both the number of ads served and the time during which the ads are displayed to the mobile users Index Terms Targeted Ads Privacy Mobile Apps Experiments I I NTRODUCTION Advertising in mobile services and in-app ads present an emerging growth area in which targeting or behavioural advertising is becoming an increasingly important source of revenue for both advertisers and advertising companies Targeted advertising is based on big data analytics where userês personal information is collected and processed for the purposes of proìling and targeting Despite the industry growth there is still limited research on characterising in-app ads Prior research work has demonstrated the large extent to which apps are collecting userês personal information the potential implications of recei ving ads to userês privacy and the increased utilisation of mobile device resources 4 T o combat these issues a number of privacy preserving 6 7 and resource ef cient mobile advertising systems 4 ha v e been proposed W orks on the characterisation of mobile ads have primarily focused on measuring the efìciency of targeted advertising to e xamine whether the targeted advertising based on the users behaviour leads to improvement in the click-through rates However so far there have been limited insights about the extent to which targeting is effected in mobile advertising that will ultimately determine the magnitude of various issues including the loss of privacy The measurement of in-app advertising presents a number of challenges While there are several in-browser measurement methods presented in the literature such as 6 9 10 however these cannot be directly applied to the evaluation of in-app ads First the targeting may be based on a number of factors that go beyond what is used in browser-based ads including mobile apps installed on the device the way they are utilised e.g heavy gamers may receive speciìc ads etc Second the classiìcation of ads requires unifying of the mobile market place\(s and traditional online environments as the ads may relate both to merchant web sites and to other apps that may be purchased and downloaded to the mobile device In this work we present a new methodology for classifying in-app ad trafìc and carry out a series of experiments to characterise in-app ads Our main contributions in this paper include  Design of a measurement methodology for collecting and categorising in-app advertisements including the classiìcation mechanism that uniìes web based and app ad categories  Characterising the ads collected in our experiments 2500 measurement hours running 100 apps resulting in close to 80,000 ad impressions including the volume and frequency of ads from various ad networks and ad display/impression times We further provide insights about the received ad categories and the prevalence of targeting and context in selected categories We show that targeted ads in line with user proìles derived by the analytics service and based on userês data are more prevalent in all Google Play apps experiments compared to contextual ads in line with the corresponding mobile app categories Despite the prevalence of data collection and proìling the majority of in-app ads are still generic i.e not tailored to either user proìle or context Although this could be partially due to the limited sizes of the ad pools for the proìles and context selected in our 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshops: 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshop on Security and Privacy in Big Data 978-1-4799-3088-3/14/$31.00 ©2014 IEEE 547 


2 experiments we argue that this result could also indicate that there is signiìcant potential for further growth of targeting for mobile ads This is in line with a recent study 1  showing the increased relevance and untapped potential of mobile advertising We note that the low level of targeting results in a currently low privacy risk from targeted ads as userês data although collected is not effectively utilised Regardless this does not reduce the motivation for further development of privacy preserving ad systems as the projected growth of the mobile ad industry and increased privacy awareness will necessitate such solutions in the immediate future This paper is organised as follows In Section II we present background related to the ad network eco-system In Section III we describe our real-time experimental setup and the procedure for categorising received ads In Section IV we discuss experimental results calculated from the proposed methodology Finally we conclude in Section V II B ACKGROUND The ad network eco-system involves different entities which comprise the advertisers ad agencies and brokers ad networks delivering ads publishers and the end customer to whom ads are delivered F o r the case of lar ge publishers the ads may be served both by the publisher and the advertiser Consequently the eco-system includes a number of interactions between different parties We identify the workîow of a mobile app requesting an AdMob ad and the triggered actions resulting from e.g a user click Figure 1 illustrates the advertising networks key players and their interactions with a userês mobile device The mobile device requests an ad from the ad network AdMob using the POST method Step 1 containing device version model and the app running on device etc The ad is then served and shown as an overlay ad in the mobile app Step 2 After the user clicks on the ad the landing page is associated with both the Google analytic services Step 3 and the related Web server Step 5 where some static objects are also downloaded from the CDN Step 4 Both the in-browser and in-app ad delivery mechanisms can be customized to an individual userês proìle For in-browser ads user proìling is performed by analytic companies using different information such as browsing history web searches etc that is tracked using cookies However for the in-app ads delivery AdMob may use different information to infer users interests and to personalise delivered ads in particular the installed applications together with the device identiìer 2  III M ETHODOLOGY We now present the methodology used to categorise collected ads and to conduct the measurement experiments Although our primary interest is in the Google ad network and 1 http://corp.aol.com/2013/08/14/new-research-mobile-advertising-drivingpurchases-at-unpreceden 2 http://www.google.com/ads/preferences/html/mobile-about.html Fig 1 AdMob Ad Presentation Workîow Android based devices we note that the presented methodology is applicable to other networks that serve customisable ads on any mobile device A Ads Collection We evaluate the ad delivery mechanism by inspecting the traces of trafìc generated when executing apps This enable us to parse and classify the trafìc while distinguishing between ad network signalling accounting control trafìc Step 1 of Figure 1 actual ad trafìc Step 2 of Figure 1 content delivery networks CDN trafìc Step 5 of Figure 1 and analytics tracking and proìling trafìc Step 3 of Figure 1 Our main focus is on the characterization of received ads with the methodology presented in the following sub-section B Ads Categorisation We deìne the following categories of ads First Targeted ads served corresponding to userês proìle that includes interests age gender or other characteristics of a selected user as derived by the advertising company and shown in Ads Preferences Managers Ads Settings which on Android based devices can be accessed using the Google Settings app Then Contextual ads served according to the applications that the ad is displayed in We note that prior works have used the deìnitions of both targeting and context in a broader sense for web based ads  Ho we v e r a s our primary interest is in evaluating the inîuence of user proìles and apps for the sake of simplicity we do not study other factors e.g location We further deìne as Random the ads that are served to all smartphones in our experimental setup in a speciìed time period nally the ads that cannot be classiìed in any of these ways are Generic  Certainly other Ads categorisation approaches could be chosen For instance one can deem ads uniquely served to some speciìc proìles as targeted ads and consider others as generic We could also vary the location of the mobile phones and consider Location-based ads as additional category However we note that in this paper the results calculated in subsequent sections are based on the categories criteria/deìnitions described in this section 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshops: 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshop on Security and Privacy in Big Data 548 


3 Fig 2 Ads Categorization Filtering Rule We choose the order of ltering for speciìc classes as shown in the bottom part of Figure 2 Random ads are classiìed and removed from the pool rst then Targeted ads are classiìed according to the matching criteria by which an ad deìned by the landing page URL has a high similarity with one or more interest categories in the user proìle displayed in Ads Settings As the next step Contextual ads are classiìed according to again a match between the app category and the ad URL The following sub-section describes the classiìcation methodology used in this paper C Classiìcation Methodology The categorisation of ads necessitates matching of the application categories user proìle attributes and ads An app market place i.e Google Play Store includes a list of all app categories similarly the advertising companies publish a list of interest categories that may be included in Ads Settings nally ads include the URLs of sponsoring merchants In order to match those items we choose a methodology that comprises converting all categories to Alexa web site classiìcation categories 3  Alexa has 17 major categories which are further divided into a total of 27K sub-categories to include around 4 Million pre-categorised URLs For category matching to Alexa we represent both the Google and Alexa categories as text strings and use a standard string matching technique i.e we calculate cosine similarity based on tf-idf Let X be an Alexa category and i is a keyword in X  the TF  IDF is given as TF  IDF  X i  TF X,i  IDF i  where the TF X,i is the term frequency occurrence of a particular term of i in Alexa category X and is deìned as TF X,i   t  X  t  i    X  and IDF i is the inverse document frequency of i in the considered category In this case the IDF i is the logarithm of Alexa categoryês keywords frequency inverse i.e IDF i log 1 f i  These TF  IDF are computed for every Alexa categories and is saved in a vector Likewise the TF  IDF is computed for user proìle represented as TF  IDF  Y i  TF Y,i  IDF i  where the result is stored in another vector Thus the cosine similarity-based IDF between these two vectors is computed 3 http://www.alexa.com/topsites/category as Co sin e  IDF  X Y   x  X  Y IDF 2 x   x  X IDF 2 x   x  Y IDF 2 y For a resulting cosine similarity of 1 we choose a single Alexa category as a match while for a lower resulting value we choose a number of matching Alexa categories Classiìcation of URLs is either obtained directly from Alexa website or when the URL is Google Play store for ads related to apps or games Google Play Store app  game category is mapped to Alexa using the above method Note that the proposed classiìcation methodology builds on the method proposed in 2 We also perform a sanity check by manually comparing selected categories observing that not surprisingly there is a high similarity between the top level Alexa categories and Google Play store categories Fig 3 Network Scenario D Experimental Setup We evaluate the in-app Google AdMob ads serving mechanism using the experimental setup shown in Figure 3 with phones having Wi-Fi based network access Each Android phone is conìgured trained with a selected user proìle corresponding to one of the GooglePlay app categories 4  Proìle training is done by installing the top 100 apps from the selected app category and running the top 10 apps that receive ads note not all apps receive ads for a minimum period of 24 hours During the training process we note that the phones evolve a sophisticated set of user interests comprising a speciìc user proìle as shown in the Ads Settings accessed via the Google settings app A single phone is additionally conìgured with a Null proìle where the opt-out option note this applies to proìling and this phone still receives ads is chosen in the Ads Settings We stress that our goal is to evaluate the inîuence of context and user proìles on the received ads For ad collection experiments we install and run the same apps that were used for training from a selected category depending on the experiment the selected category may 4 https://play.google.com/store/apps 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshops: 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshop on Security and Privacy in Big Data 549 


4 be different from the category the test phoneês proìle was conìgured with Each experiment is run for a period of 25 hours on 10 phones in parallel Out of the total of 27 app categories including both applications and games available on GooglePlay we choose 9 for our experiments Business Communication Education Entertainment Games-Arcade  Action Health  Fitness Medical Shopping and Sports In total our experiments result in 2500 hours of measurements using 100 apps Although our test setup was limited by the availability of phones we consider that the chosen app categories are a sufìciently large representative of the Android advertising ecosystem and that the results presented here can be generalised to the remaining app and proìle categories IV E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS In this section we present results obtained according to the methodology outlined in Section III We rst investigate the ad trafìc characterization and then detail the categorization of received ads Our main objective is to quantify the results of in-app ad delivery mechanism and based on those ndings compute the categorization of received ads a Ads Characterisation During our experiments we receive a total of 79431 ads of which 65543 are served by Google AdMob while the remaining 13888 are collectively served from other ad networks e.g adfonic admarvel etc The higher proportion of received ads with Google AdMob can be explained by the fact that in our experiments we use applications from Google Play Store We rst analyse Google AdMob ads and we discuss other ad networks in the following sub-sections Figure 4 shows CDF for unique AdMob ads with corresponding frequencies a more detailed view of 80 of unique ads CDF is also shown showing the number of times each unique ad is served It can be observed that 27.14 of unique ads are served once A higher number of speciìc unique ads can also be observed For example a Google Play ad for NRL National Rugby League a popular sports competition is served 2046 times Overall we found that 93 of unique ads are served 14010 times while 7 ads are served 51533 times which corresponds to a signiìcant proportion 78.63 of the total AdMob ads This strongly suggests that ad networks could beneìt from the use of caching mechanisms such as the AdCache technique proposed in to ef ciently use netw ork resources by caching the more frequent ads Figure 5 shows Alexa categories of received ads along with the frequency bins which refer to the number of times ads are served within the speciìed frequency e.g 1-100 times Unique ads within a speciìc frequency bin are also shown on top of each bar We can observe that ads within the frequency bin 1100 have a rich set of categories Across all the frequency bins we observe that ads from Arts 23.59 of total AdMob ads to the left of gure i.e ads within lower frequency bins and Sports 20.57 of total AdMob ads within higher frequency bins categories are served with higher numbers Note that the Sports ads primarily relate to Google Play apps NRL and AFL Australian Football League Fig 4 Frequency CDF of Unique Ads Fig 5 Frequency of Unique Ads Served by Categories b Ads Display Time Various parameters we calculate for ads analysis are shown in Figure 6 Comparing Google AdMob with other ad networks in Figure 7 we show the dominance of AdMob Considering for example the Google Play Business app category we can observe a total of 10719 received ads as indicated on top of Business bar to the left of Figure 7 among which 91.66 and 8.34 of ads are respectively served by Google AdMob and other ad networks These ads are displayed for different amount of times e.g in the above example AdMob ads are displayed for14.3hrs while other ad networks are collectively displayed for 0.96hrs averaged over all Android phones Consequently total amount of time taken by Business apps is 15.3hrs 61.04 of total experimental time of 25hrs while for a duration of 9.74hrs no ads are served  Idle time The  Display Idle  time pairs are shown on top of each category of Google Play apps on the right hand side of Figure 7 e.g  15.3 9.7  hours Thus we observe that for the entire set of experiments ads are served for 53.91 of time whereas the Idle time is 46.09 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshops: 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshop on Security and Privacy in Big Data 550 


5 Fig 6 Parameters used for ads analysis in an experiment Idle time T  is the time duration measured from the beginning of the experiment where no ads are served the ads Display time is the time duration during which ads are shown on mobileês screen T G and T NG are respectively the time duration or a burst of consecutive ads from Google or other ad networks Impression time is the aggregate of these individual bursts Fig 7 Comparison of AdMob  Other Ad Networks This analysis indicates that ad networks do not sufìciently utilize the available app usage time to serve ads This suggests that there is still a potential for the Mobile Ads market to grow We note that among 900 experimental instances 310 instances do not receive any ad Furthermore among these 310 instances 70 instances belong to 7 applications that do not receive any ads over the entire set of user proìles However these applications do receive ads as noted a number of times e.g on 12:25PM 30 May 2013 Possible reasons could be the inîuence of user proìles as the Null proìle has the lowest proportion of apps that receive ads Null phone attracts lowest proportion 7.57 of total ads We also observe that for instance the Entertainment proìle attracts a lower number of ads when the Google Play Business and Education apps are run This observation strongly suggests inîuence of the user proìles/interests related to the presence absence or contents of userês proìle Another reason could be that Australia may have a small pool of ads to serve c Ads Impression Time Figure 8 shows the CDF for ad Impression time of Google AdMob and other ad networks Note that we consider top 5 ad networks that serve the highest number of ads The ad Impression time for AdMob for some experiments spans the entire duration of the experiment as shown in inner graph of Figure 8 where no ads are downloaded from other ad networks Comparative analysis shows that consecutive ads from Google AdMob are more Fig 8 Ad Impression Time for AdMob and Top 5 other Ad Networks CDF frequently served compared to other ad networks with the respective time periods of 3443 and 2847 on the scale of 1000sec We further observe that the inter-arrival time for both AdMob and other ad networks for a speciìc experiment are identical Fig 9 Proportion of Random Targeted Contextual  Generic Ads  d Categorisation of Ads We now discuss the categorization of received ads and we examine the inîuence of context and user proìles Figure 9 shows the overall fractions for categories of received ads classiìed as Random Targeted Contextual and Generic for a speciìc Google Play apps category according to methodology discussed in Section III-B The total numbers of received ads e.g 9825 ads for the Business category along with unique ads 185 ads are also shown on top of each categoryês bar Random ads are calculated with overlap time of 6hrs we also take another variant with a 1hr overlap where we observe slightly lower number of ads those results are not shown due to space limitations It can be observed from Figure 9 that for all Google Play apps a 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshops: 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshop on Security and Privacy in Big Data 551 


6 Fig 10 Proportion of Random Targeted Contextual  Generic Ads  under different User Proìles higher proportion of Targeted ads corresponding to user proìles is always served when compared to Contextual ads In addition the percentage of Targeted ads received in Sports and Education apps is greater than the Generic/Contextual/Random ads likewise the proportion of Targeted ads for Entertainment apps is slightly lower than that of Generic ads An important point to note is that there is a higher overall proportion 77 of Generic ads in Google Play apps indicating that Google AdMob is more likely to serve Generic ads regardless of both forms according to their proìles or application contexts of targeting mobile users Random ads are also distributed with higher percentages e.g in Business apps 18.57 of the ads are randomly served irrespective of user proìles including the Null proìle Overall on all the Google Play apps 11 of the total number of AdMob ads are Random ads Figure 10 illustrates the proportion of categories of received ads for all user proìles when only Google Play Entertainment apps were running on the phones We can observe that Generic ads are served in higher proportion for the majority of user proìles while in some proìles such as Education and Sports the proportion of Targeted ads is higher than the Generic ads The Null proìle having no proìle naturally attracts a higher percentage of Generic ads We observe similar results for apps from other categories While the high proportion of generic ads indicates a relatively low level of proìle-based user targeting we now highlight how having the proìle targeting enabled still has a signiìcant impact on the served ads Considering the difference between the ads received on Null proìle phones and on phones that have user proìles enabled we note that Null proìle phones receive on the average more than 12 times less ads 92.43 of total ads in all our experiments are received on phones with proìles wile 7.5 are received on Null phones V C ONCLUSION In this paper we present a comprehensive analysis of the ads serving mechanism of Google AdMob network We propose a measurement methodology for collecting in-application ads and observe the prevalence of targeting and context based ads in selected app categories However overall our results suggest that while there is a signiìcant difference in the number of ads served to users that have enabled proìling in Google settings compared to those with no proìles and a notable proportion of ads is tailored to speciìc user proìles and applications context the level of targeting in the Mobile Ads market is still quite low Therefore there is still room for improvement in personalisation and targeting in the Mobile Ads market and systems that will efìciently utilise collected userês data on which such targeting is based Additionally the low volume of targeting also indicates that the timing is right for the development of privacy preserving ad systems as the increased user privacy awareness and evolving regulatory frameworks in a number of countries will make new solutions a necessity for the growing Mobile Ads industry in the immediate future R EFERENCES  I Leontiadis C Efstratiou M Picone and C Mascolo Don t kill my ads balancing privacy in an ad-supported mobile application market in Proceedings of the Twelfth Workshop on Mobile Computing Systems  Applications  p 2 ACM 2012  C Castelluccia M.-A Kaaf ar  and M.-D T ran Betrayed by your ads  in Privacy Enhancing Technologies  pp 1Ö17 Springer 2012  A J Khan K Jayarajah D Han A Misra R Balan and S Seshan Cameo A middleware for mobile advertisement delivery in ACM MobiSys  2013  N V allina-Rodriguez J Shah A Finamore Y  Grunenber ger  K  P apagiannaki H Haddadi and J Crowcroft Breaking for commercials characterizing mobile advertising in Proceedings of the 2012 ACM conference on Internet measurement conference  pp 343Ö356 ACM 2012  S Guha B Cheng A Reznichenk o H Haddadi and P  Francis Pri v ad Rearchitecting online advertising for privacy Proceedings of Hot Topics in Networking HotNets  2009  V  T oubiana A Narayanan D Boneh H Nissenbaum and S Barocas Adnostic Privacy preserving targeted advertising in NDSS  2010  H Haddadi P  Hui and I Bro wn Mobiad pri v ate and scalable mobile advertising in Proceedings of the fth ACM international workshop on Mobility in the evolving internet architecture  pp 33Ö38 ACM 2010  J Y an N Liu G W ang W  Zhang Y  Jiang and Z Chen Ho w much can behavioral targeting help online advertising in Proceedings of the 18th international conference on World wide web  pp 261Ö270 ACM 2009  C E W ills and C T atar  Understanding what the y d o with what the y know In WPES 2012  R Balebak o P  Leon R Shay  B  U r  Y  W ang and L Cranor  Measuring the effectiveness of privacy tools for limiting behavioral advertising in Web 2.0 Workshop on Security and Privacy  2012  T  T rzcinski  Analyse tar get  adv ertise pri v a c y in mobile ads   A F arahat and M C Baile y  Ho w e f fecti v e is tar geted adv ertising  in WWW  pp 111Ö120 ACM 2012  M Cunche M A Kaaf ar  and R Boreli I kno w who you will meet this evening linking wireless devices using wi probe requests in World of Wireless Mobile and Multimedia Networks WoWMoM 2012 IEEE International Symposium on a  pp 1Ö9 IEEE 2012 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshops: 2014 IEEE INFOCOM Workshop on Security and Privacy in Big Data 552 


                       


       0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 2 0 2 4 ST1 \(dps 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 2 1 0 1 2 ST2 \(dps Time \(secs 


              


Harvard Business Review Knowledge and Information Systems SIGKDD Explorations Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence \(WCCI 2008 Philosophical transactions Series A Mathematical physical and engineering sciences Journal of Visual Languages Computing Computer 9th Workshop on Domain-Specific Modeling at OOPSLA 9th International Software Product Line Conference Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning The Elements of Statistical Learning - Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction Statistical Science Neural Information Processing Systems NIPS Machine Learning: A Probalbistic Perspective Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series B \(Methodological IEEE Transactions on Information Theory Artificial Intelligence Journal of Machine Learning Research Statistics in Medicine Bayesian Analysis International Society for Bayesian Analysis Bulletin 3rd International Workshop on Distributed Statistical Computing \(DSC 2003 AMPL: A Modelling Language for Mathematical Programming Operations Research 
UAIê01 
6   October, 2012 7  X  W u  V  Kum a r, J. Ross Qu in lan J. G h o s h, Q  Ya n g  M. Motoda, G. J. McLachlan, A. Ng, B. Liu, P. S. Yu, Z vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 1 37, 2007 8 M Ha ll, E Fran k  G  Holm es B P f ah rin g e r P   vol. 11, no. 1 pp. 10 18, 2009 9 U. M  Fay y ad  G  P iatetsk y S h ap iro, an d  P  Smy t h   in  1996, pp. 1 34 10  2008, pp. 1 24 11 T  Mi n k a, J. W in n J. G u iver, an d D  Kn o w les 12  vol. 371, no. 1984, 2013 13  the visual model-driven development of next generation software, vol. 17, no. 6, pp. 528 550, 2006 14   vol. 39, no. 2, pp. 25 31, 2006 15  Use of Domain, 2009 16  Specific 2005, vol. 3714, pp. 198 209 17  rial on Learning With Bayesian 18  19 C M Bisho p  New York: Springer, 2006 20 T  Ha stie, R. T i b s h irani an d  J. Friedm a n   2nd ed. 2009 21   vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 140 15  5, 2004 22  Version 2 23  24  2008, pp. 1073 1080 25 K Mu r p h y  The MIT Press, 2012 26  computations with probabilities on graphical structures and vol. 50, no. 2 pp. 157 224, 1988 27  the Sum, vol. 47, no. 2, pp. 498 519, 2001 28 P inference in Bayesian belief networks is NP, vol. 60, pp. 141 153, 1993 29  vol. 6, no 1, pp. 661 694, 2005 30  2001, pp. 362 369 31 D L u n n D. S p ieg elh a lter, A  T h o m as, an d N Best vol. 28, no. 25, pp. 3049 3067, 2009 32  M P. W a nd, J  T  O r m e r od S. A  P a doa n  a n d R   distributions vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 1 48 2011 33   vol. 14, pp. 13 15, 2007 34  Bayesian Gr 2003 35  V ersion 1.3 36 R  F o u rer D M. G a y  an d B W  Ke rn igh a    Monterey: Duxbury Press, Brooks/Cole Pub. Co., 2002 37  vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 42 47, 2002 
A. McAfee and E. Brynjolfsson, çBig Data: The Management Revolution Zhou, M. Steinbach, D. J. Hand, and D. Steinberg, çTop 10 algorithms in data mining  Reutemann, and I. H. Witten, çThe WEKA data mining software: an update  From data mining to knowledge discovery: an overview,é in  C. M. Bishop, çA New Framework for Machine Learning,é in  Infer.NET 2.5,é 2012 C. M. Bishop, çModel based Machine Learning H. Giese and S. Henkler, çA survey of approaches for intensive systems  D. C. Schmidt, çModel Driven Engineering  J. K‰rn‰, J. P. Tolvanen, and S. Kelly, çEvaluating the Specific Modeling in Practice,é in J. P. Tolvanen and S. Kelly, çDefining Domain Modeling Languages to Automate Product Derivation\004 Collected Experiences,é in  D. Heckerman, çA Tuto Networks,é Redmond, 1996 M. I. Jordan, çAn introduction to probabilistic graphical models,é 2003 M. I. Jordan, çGraphical models  OMG, çUnified Modeling Language \(UML 4.1 August 2011.é 2011 OMG, çBusiness Process Model and Notation \(BPMN Version 2.0 January 2011.é 2011 T. Minka and J. Winn, çGates: A graphical notation for mixture models,é in  S. L. Lauritzen and D. J. Spiegelhalter, çLocal their application to expert systems  F. R. Kschischang and B. J. Frey, çFactor Graphs and Product Algorithm  Dagum and M. Luby, çApproximating probabilistic hard  J. Winn and C. M. Bishop, çVariational Message Passing  T. P. Minka, çExpectation propagation for approximate Bayesian inference,é in  The BUGS project: Evolution, critique and future directions  Fr¸hrwirth, çMean field variational Bayes for elaborate   K. P. Murphy, çSoftware for Graphical models: a review  M. Plummer, çJAGS\004: A Program for Analysis of aphical Models Using Gibbs Sampling JAGS\004 Just Another Gibbs Sampler,é in Stan Development Team, çStan Modeling Language Userês Guide and Reference Manual 2013 G. B. Dantzig, çLinear Programming  
767 


             


                                          


                                             


                      


                                               


   


                                


                        


                           


   












































     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


