The 2014 International Conference on Collabora tion Technologies and Systems \(CTS 2014 May 19 - 23, 2014, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA   CTS 2014 PANEL SESSIONS   PANEL SESSION I   Cross-Domain Analytics: Understanding and Supporting Collaboration with Big Data   PANEL MEMBERS Obinna B. Anya  Accelerated Discovery Lab, Almaden Research Center, California, USA John V. Carlis University of Minnesota – Twin Cities, Minnesota, USA  Brent J. Hecht  University of Minnesota – Twin Cities, Minnesota, USA   MODERATOR  Daniel Keefe  University of Minnesota – Twin Cities, Minnesota, USA  ABSTRACT This panel explores the many roles of data analytics in today’s cross-domain collaborations.  In some instances cross-domain analytics are required to understand big data In others, big data holds the key to understanding and evaluating how people collaborate across domains.  Panelis ts will present their experiences with big data and collaboration, and discussion will be guided by the follo wing questions:  How does understanding data through collaboration” relate to “understandi ng collaboration through data”?  What modeling tools, visualizations abstractions, and metrics can help f acilitate collaborative discovery from bi g data?  To what extent should these tools be tailored to specific domains or groups?  How much do we need to know about another domain or group before we can intersect domain specific activities that c onstitute the context to various analytical processes, and cross-pollinate ideas for deeper analyti cs? What optimally would that othe r domain or group need to know about us?  How much of this knowledge can we extract from data  PANELISTS SHORT BIOS & PHOTOS Obinna Anya is a postdoctoral researcher in the Accelerated Discovery Lab at IBM Research – Almaden, San Jose, California USA. His work lies in the areas of humancomputer interaction, collaborative workpl aces, social informatics, and agent-based modeling. A computer scientist, his research blends methods of social science and computer science in the design of human-centred systems and environments for networkenabled organizations of the future. In particul ar, he examines inter action, emergence, and collaborative discovery in socio-computational systems. Obinna holds a PhD for his work on practice-centered approach to context-aw are system design in e-health, an MSc in distributed systems – both from the University of Liverpool, UK – and a BSc in computer science from the University of Nigeria Nsukka. He previously worked as a research scientist at Liverpool Hope University, UK, where he was the lead researcher on a British Council sponsored project on context-aware collaborative environments for e-health decision support  


John V. Carlis is a professor of computer science and biomedical informatics and computational biology at the University of Minnesota. His research interests include developing better practices in data modeling and querying a nd developing extensions to database management systems in the context of complex evolving biomedical applications Carlis received a PhD in business administrati on from the University of Minnesota. Contact him at carlis@umn.edu      Brent J. Hecht is an assistant professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Minnesota. With interests that lie at the intersection of human–computer interaction, geography, and big data, his research centers on the relationship between big data and human factors such as culture. A major focus of his work involves volunteered geographic information and its application in location-aware technologies. Dr. Hecht received a Ph.D. in computer science from Nort hwestern University, a Master’s degree in geography from UC Santa Barbara, and dual Bachelor’s degrees in computer science and geography from Macalester College. He was a keynote speaker at WikiSym – the premiere conference on wikis and open collaboration – and has received awards for his research at top-tier publication venues in human-computer interac tion and geography \(e.g. AC M CHI, COSIT\s collaborated with Google Research, Xerox PARC, and Micros oft Research, and his work has been featured in the Wall Street Journal, MIT Technology Review, New Scie ntist, AllThingsDigital, ACM TechNews, and various international TV, radio and Internet outlets  Daniel Keefe is the McKnight-Land Grant Assistant Pr ofessor, specializes in visualization and interactive computer gra phics.  He received the NSF CAREER Award in 2011, the University of Minnesota McKnight LandGrant Professorship in 2012, and the 3M Nontenured Faculty Award in 2013 He has published numerous ar ticles in top journals and international confer ences and has received best paper and best panel awards for his research and teaching.  In addition to his work in comput er science, he is also an accomplished artist and has published and exhibited work in top inte rnational venues for digital art.  Before joining the University of Minnesota, Keefe did post-doctoral work at Brown University jointly with the departments of Computer Scie nce and Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and with the Rhode Island School of Design.  He received the Ph.D. in 2007 from Brown University’s Department of Computer Science, which nominated his work for the ACM Dissertation Prize, and the B.S. in Computer Engineering summa cum laude from Tufts University in 1999.  He is a member of the ACM and IEEE    


The 2014 International Conference on Collabora tion Technologies and Systems \(CTS 2014 May 19 - 23, 2014, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA   PANEL SESSION II   Goals and Challenges of Collaboration in Healthcare    PANEL MEMBERS Obinna Anya  Accelerated Discovery Lab, Almaden Research Center, California, USA Neale R. Chumbler  Department of Health Policy and Mana gement, College of Public Health University of Georgia - Athens, Georgia, USA  Saif Khairat  Institute for Health Informa tics, University of Minnesota – Twin Cities, Minnesota USA  Joseph A. Konstan  Department of Computer Science and E ngineering, University of Minnesota Twin Cities, Minnesota, USA  MODERATOR  Danilo Pani  EOLAB – Microelectronics and Bioengin eering Lab, Dept. of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University of Cagliari, Italy  ABSTRACT Collaborative technologies are pervading every aspect of the modern society, influencing the way we act, work and interact. In healthcare, the benefits of colla boration are well validated. Collaborative technologies and systems in healthcare and the biomedical fields potentially create new ways to develop, deliver and improve the quality and outcomes of health services. Identifying the goa ls and challenges of collaboration in healthcare is a key factor to drive cutting-edge research in the field Telemedicine and telehealth have not only created opport unities to connect to broader populations, for example in rural areas, in order to reduce costs and improve quality but also have led to novel techniques for collaborative discovery in the biomedical field, fostering interac tion among experts, and enabling cost-effective solutions However, collaboration in healthcare continues to falter, a nd is rarely employed in practice. Several constraints exist. There is often a lack of common ground to suppor t shared perception of information and activity awareness during collaboration. Security, privacy, and quality ch allenges remain largely unresolved. The nature and complexity of healthcare practice require processes that not only leverage tacit strate gies, situational knowledge and experiences, but also vary across communities a nd remain often unaccounted for in the design of collaborative technologies This panel discusses, from several points of views, the fa ctors that enhance or hinder collaboration in healthcare Discussion will focus on adoption of collaborative technologi es in healthcare, the lim its and challenges of the current solutions, and possible evolutions of the curre nt organizational models highlighting how emerging techniques in areas such as big data analytics, cloud computing, security, mobile applications, multimedia data streaming, and user interaction design, could be harnessed to enhance the practice of collaboration in healthcare Panelists will share their thoughts and experiences on aspect s of collaboration in healthcare in the light of their personal academic or industrial perspectives   


PANELISTS SHORT BIOS & PHOTOS Obinna Anya is a postdoctoral researcher in the Accelerated Discovery Lab at IBM Research – Almaden. His work lies in the areas of human-computer interaction collaborative workplaces, social informatics and agent-based modeling. A computer scientist, his research blends methods of social science and computer science in the design of human-centred systems and environments for network-enabled organizations of the future. In particular, he examines interacti on, emergence, and collaborative discovery in socio-computational systems. Obinna holds a PhD for his work on practice-centered approach to context-aware system design in e-health, an MSc in distributed systems – both from the University of Liverpool, UK – and a BSc in computer science from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka. He previously worked as a research scientist at Liverpool Hope University, UK, where he was the lead researcher on a British Council sponsored project on context-aware collaborative environments for e-health decision support  Neale R. Chumbler serves as the Department Head, Gra duate Coordinator, and Professor of Health Policy and Management in the College of Public Health at The University of Georgia In these positions, Dr. Chumbler leads a diverse and interdisciplinary department with twelve tenure track faculty and nine associated faculty and coordinates and directs all aspects of the Health Policy and Management Concentra tion of the MPH program. He has had a longstanding interest and expert ise in developing and evaluating complex health information technology interventions that deliv er accessible care for functio nally impaired and cognitively impaired older individuals that ultimately improve patient centered outcomes. For over 8 years, I implemented a nd evaluated specific interventions to improve access to care including applications of health information technology including telehealth for community dwe lling older individuals. He recently completed a randomized controlled funded trial that used a telemedicine colla borative care approach to optimize analgesic management using a stepped drug a pproach to drug selection, symptom monitoring, dose adjustment, and switching or adding medications. He also previously served as a PI on a multi-site Randomized controlled Trial that employed teleheal th technologies to improve access to care and improve physical functioning for older adults who survived a stroke and who are residi ng at home. to enhance and secure extramural funds Interim Director of the Survey Research Center. Under his leadership, the Department of Sociology, the Institute for Research on Social Issues and the Survey Research experienced significant increases in extramural funding. A proponent of shared governance, while serving as Department Chair, Dr Chumbler implemen ted a three-person Steering Committee, comprising of three faculty members and who advised the Chair on Departmental matters. He also reorganized the responsibilities of the Directors of both the Graduate and Undergraduate Programs and developed new positions of Deputy Directors of Graduate a nd Undergraduate Studies. Also at IUPUI, he served as the Associate Director \(second-in-com mand\the Center for Implemen ting Evidence-Based Practice, an interdisciplinary research center with 75 employees funded by the United Stat es Department of Veterans Affairs VA\In this same research center, he also served as th e Director of the Interdisciplinary Postdoctoral Research Fellowship Program and developed and implemented productivity expect ations, benchmarks and evaluation procedures for postdoctoral fellows. He further served the role as an investigator at the Regenstrief Institute, a private, not-profit research organi zation affiliated with the Indiana University School of Medicine  Saif Khairat is a Clinical Assistant Professor at the Institute for Health Informatics at the University of Minnesota. Dr. Khairat is the co Principal Investigator of the Great Plains Telehealth Resource and Assistance Center, a fe deral grant from the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration. Dr. Khairat is the Chair-Elect of the Education Working Group at the American Medical Informatics Association \(AMIA\member of the Working Group Steering Committee at AMIA Among his research interests are Telemedicine, mHealth in Diabetes care, human factors, clinical communication in Intensive Care Units. Dr. Khairat earned his Ph D in Health Informatics at the Informatics Institute at the University of Missouri with a focus on ICU clinical communication. During his Informatics training, Dr. Khairat worked as a Research Fellow at the Division of 


Clinical Informatics at Harvard Medical School. He also has track record of computer science training. He designed and developed a clinical content tracking syst em by bridging Database Management Systems and web applications. Dr. Khairat is lead author to numerous publ ications and serves as a scientific reviewer to national and international conferences and journa ls such as the Journal of Applied Clin ical Informatics, American Journal of Critical Care, AMIA, and the Journal for Health Informatics  Joseph A. Konstan is Distinguished McKnight University Professor, Distinguished University Teaching Professor and Associate Department Head of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Minnesota.  His research addresses a variety of human-computer interaction issues, including recommender systems, social computing, and applications of computing to public health.  His work on the GroupLens Recommender System won the 2010 ACM Software Systems Award. Professor Konstan has been recognized for his teaching through bot h University and College teaching awards He has given popular webinars on recommender systems and on ethical issues in social computing research, and has taught dozens of short courses and tutorials on recommender systems, human-computer interaction, a nd related topics.  Dr. Konstan receive d his Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley in 1993.  He is a Fellow of th e ACM, IEEE, and AAAS, and elected member of the CHI Academy, Past-President of ACM SIGCHI, the 4500member Special Interest Group on Human-Computer Interaction, and a member of the ACM Council.  He chaired the first ACM Conference on Recommender Systems in 2007, and recently chaire d the CHI 2012 conference  Danilo Pani is non-tenure Assistant Professor in Biomedical Engineering at the Dept Electrical and Electronic Engineering of the University of Cagliari, Italy. He received the University degree \(Laurea, magna cum laude electronic engineering from the University of Cagliari, Italy, in 2002, and the Ph.D. de gree in electronic and computer engineering from the same university in 2006. Dr. Pani is member of the national Medical Informatics committee of UNINFO. He is PI of the Regional Project L.R.7/2007 “ELoRA - Low-power real-time processing of neural signals for prosth etic aids” and is involved in many national and European Projects in the field of neuroengi neering. In the past he has been PI of a research project on non-invasive fetal electrocardiography and has been involved in several project about digital signal processing architectures, telemedici ne and telerehabilitation. He is author of more than 40 international publications and one patent on a telerehabilitation device. Current main research topics are embedded real-time processing of peripheral nervous system signals for neuroprostheses, real-time non-invasive fetal ECG extraction, bioinspired integrated architectur es for parallel biomedical signal processing, telemedicine and telerehabilitation systems   


The 2014 International Conference on Collabora tion Technologies and Systems \(CTS 2014 May 19 - 23, 2014, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA   PANEL SESSION III   Dynamics of Organizational Effectiveness and Collaborative Technologies in a Military Environment   PANEL MEMBERS Jason Evgenides  Organizational Enablement, Shiloh, Illinois, USA  Janet Girton  Cyber Semantics, Shiloh, Illinois, USA  Arlene King  Strategic Communication, C5T, Shiloh, Illinois, USA  Joseph Zahn  Knowledge Management Specialist, C5T, Shiloh, Illinois, USA   MODERATOR  Gregory Padula  Vice President-Operations, C5T, Shiloh, Illinois, USA   ABSTRACT Have you ever wondered why the best practices of industr y are proven – yet they fail in many situations?  This panel will discuss the dynamics of organizational pro cesses and supporting technologies used to support a multibillion dollar military organization operating in a gl obal environment.  The panel will discuss the ongoing development of an Enterprise Organizational Effectiven ess \(EOE\model that is being developed, tested and deployed in the context of standard, repeatable processe s, and organizational enablement to define technology requirements. Particular interest focuses on integrati ng appropriate processes before adapting technologies that provide threads of information on fast moving and rapidl y changing events to provide assessments for leadership decision-making. Aspects of this EOE model include Organizational Enablement Knowledge and Information Management, and Communication. This panel will cover the steps in assessing, prioritizing, selecting, and implementing organizational effectiveness improvement s. This EOE model will apply to commercial and government environments  Supporting the process are collaborative tools.  Tools that enable users to easily discover and share information are critical in assisting teams in responding to crises The panel will discuss current and innovative information technology tools that successfully enhanced process improvement methodologies and subsequently ensured improved organizational effectiveness  The moderator will engage a panel of logistics, operations, and knowledge management subject matter experts on developing necessary cooperative processes to mediate and achieve optimized use of supporting technologies Panelists will share insights and knowledge on the cha llenges and organizational problem-solving in a military environment with a high-operational tempo 1 What practical techniques can be used for technology transition in a high operational tempo 2 What processes make technological implementati on agile, adaptive, participative and practical 3 How do you convince business partners that orga nizational realignment and technology can a major benefit to the success of the program  


PANELISTS SHORT BIOS & PHOTOS Greg Padula is the C5T Corp VP Operations and one of the founding members. In this role, he is responsible for C5T members delivering capability in a practical way for customers.  He is a retired Air Force officer with operational and technical experience. He led the transformation of a 1200 aircraft gl obal command and control organization that flies 900 missions a day to 50+ countries. This transformation included process, systems and connectivity improvements.  He was also Director of Requirements and Resources for a defense organizational $150M IT portfolio. For th e last six years, he has led a contractor team for an air, land, and surface multi-billion dollar military organization. C5T’s low risk approach has resulted in hundreds of organizational, process, procedures, and IT improvements across more than 20 organizations He has a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering and Master’s degree in Logistics Management He has Air Force acquisition certifications in Test and Evaluation and Program Manageme nt; and commercial certification in Lean Six Sigma and Knowledge Management greg.padula@c5t.com   Jason G. Evgenides received a B.S. in Computer Information Systems from the University of Puget Sound, Tacoma, Washington in 1984, an M.S. in Transportation Management, Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio in 1992, as well as a M.S in Strategic Studies, Air War College, Maxwell AFB, and Montgomery, Alabama in 2006.  Mr. Evgenides has over 25 years of pr oven leadership in diverse organizations ranging from 20 to over 400 people.  During hi s military service, he served in numerous mobility and logistics positions at all Depart ment of Defense worked as a transportation officer, logistics officer, action officer, execu tive officer, division chief and commander With over two decades of experience in the Department of Defense supply chain, acquisition, and logistics management industry, he integrated logistics systems reduced operating costs and improved productivity through innovation, creativity, and organizational leadership.  Mr Evgenides has a proven track record for collaboration at all levels of organizational hierar chy and is skilled in measuring, assessi ng, and guiding bot h individual and organizational effectiveness needs while leveraging prac tical experience.   From 2012-2014, he has served as a Senior Logistics Analyst for C5T Corporation Shiloh, Illinois. He can be reached at jason.evgenides@c5t.com   Janet A. Girton received a B.S. in Psychology from the University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.  She earned her M.S. in Military Operational Art and Science from Air University, Maxwell AFB, Montgomery, Alabama.  She has more than 20 years of US Air Force operational knowledge and l eadership in various military organization levels.  She has served as base communications squadron commander, as well as various command control positions at major command a nd joint and multi-national command levels of operation.  Janet has served in a variety of command control and communications positions  and  supported the nuclear command center arena command control and communications assets.  With more than 25 year s of C4I of experience in the Department of Defense, she provides insight into the command control, operations management, cyber and communications aspects of support to DoD.  Le veraging her operations bac kground and communications knowledge, she leads the requirements interaction between operators and communicators, supporting organizational effectiveness and collaboration. Since 2008, she has served as a Functional Analyst for C5T Corporation.  She can be reached at janet.girton@c5t.com   


Arlene F. King is a Strategic Communication consultant for the Command, Control Communications, Capabilities, and Transformati on Corporation \(C5T\nce joining C5T in 2008, Ms. King has contributed to the impl ementation of Organizational Effectiveness Knowledge Management, and Lean Six Sigma processes to guide the practical application of technological solutions in a military operati onal setting.  She also applies communication techniques to promote change.  She holds a MA in Mass Communication from the University of Florida.  Ms. King has spent more than 20 years developing and implementing strategic communication plan s for numerous Department of Defense organizations.  She is a retired Army officer w ith more than 26 years of military service During 13 years of her service, she worked in Army communications, where she received training and certifications in telecommunica tions center operations and radio operations She worked as a strategic planning and operations o fficer developing training and operations plans for communications activities.  She is certified in Lean Six Sigma and Knowledge Management. Her research interests include the impact of organizational change in operationally environments and the effects of social media in business environments. She can be reached at arlene.king@c5t.com   Joseph A. Zahn received his B.S. from the United States Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colorado in 1987, a M.S. in Aero nautical Science Technology, Embry Riddle Aeronautical University, Daytona Beach, Florida in 1997, a M. S. in Military Studies, Air Command and Staff College in 2002 as well as a M.S, in Strategic Studies, Air War College in 2007 both at Maxwell AFB, Montgomery, Alabama During his 25 year military career, he served in numerous mobility and logistics posi tions from the squadron, wing, Head Quarters Air Force, and US Transportation command leve ls as an aircrew member, action officer executive officer, division chief and commander During his tenure as commander of two ingarrison squadrons at Travis AFB, California as well as commander of the largest expeditionary aerial port of debarkation in Central Command at Kuwait City, Kuwait, he was responsible for knowledge and information program implem entation.  Later, while serving as the Chief, Commander’s Action Group HQ Air Mobility Command, Scott AFB IL, Vice Wing Co mmander at Travis AFB, California, and  U.S Transportation Command, Scott AFB, IL,  his leadership enabled program development, always focusing on knowledge sharing as a means to mission success. In 2012, Mr. Zahn began working as a Knowledge Management subject matter expert for C5T Corp oration in support of numerous planning and operational processes    


The 2014 International Conference on Collabora tion Technologies and Systems \(CTS 2014 May 19 - 23, 2014, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA   CTS 2014 DEMO SESSIONS   DEMO SESSION I   Smart View Entity Resolution   Mary Galvin LexisNexis Special Services, Inc LNSSI Mary.Galvin@LNSSI.com    DEMO  ABSTRACT Smart View™ enables the data scientist to gain new, deeper insights into enti ties of interest across “big” datasets all without needing to attempt to integrate separate, di sparate technologies for data processing, entity resolution and data enrichment. The product’s fully integrated set of entity resolution capabilities allow organizations to exploit the full breadth of available data. These capabilities include  Creation of comprehensive “Entity Intelligence” pr ofiles from disparate, heterogeneous and complex datasets. Resultant profiles can be delivered to end users across any number of data presentation, alerting and/or visualization channels via standards-based APIs  Processes for ingesting, profiling and normalizing massi ve data volumes at the click of a button, while simultaneously taking advantage of a massively para llel Extract, Transform, and Load data management subsystem to perform such operations behind-the-scenes  The ability to analyze complex networks of relations hips and explore results through innovative, data science-oriented visualizations  LexisNexis has decades of experien ce in the entity resolution arena Scalable Automated Linking Technology SALT\highly accurate, fast and flexible technology running behind-the-scenes in prominent corporate applications, is what distinguishes LexisN exis data from that of its competitors An example of this is LexisNexis Accurint system, which contains billions of records from 10,000+ sources and has resolved the individuals contained therein to 250 million unique identities. Its users in the law enforcement, employee screening, insurance and banking industries all rely on identity profiles gene rated through SALT’s entity resolution capability to guide their decision-making process  The same technology that serves as the secret sauce behind LexisNexis’ multi-billion dollar business in the risk sector is now embedded in Smart View™ and exposed to the user in such a way that any organization can capitalize on its powerful entity resolution capabilities  During this demonstration, attendees will see how Smart View’s entity resolution and relationship extraction algorithms have been applied to a variety of datasets in various languages and formats: Twitter profiles, cargo shipping data, international phonebook data, international m ovie data, etc. Time will be reserved at the end for Q&A from the audience  


REQUIREMENTS  AND  TARGET  AUDIENCE Knowledge of LexisNexis’ High Performan ce Computing Cluster \(HPCC\not required \(the HPCC serves as Smart View’s backend  Anyone who is tasked with or has an interest in entity reso lution as it pertains to big data is encouraged to attend  DEMO  DURATION The demo will be presented in a 30-minute session  A/V AND EQUIPMENT Personal computer and a projector  PRESENTER’S  BIOGRAPHY Mary Galvin has a decade of professional expertise in the software industry serving in a variety of technical & management roles on pr oducts and projects. Mary s technical domain expertise encompasses both huma n language technology \(HLT as well as data intensive processing systems such as LexisNexis’ Hi gh Performance Computing Cluster \(HPCC  Mary earned her bachelor’s degree in comput er engineering from Villanova University in 2003, where she also received minors in comput er science, Spanish, and naval science. In addition to being proficient in Spanish, she has a strong knowledge of the Arabic and Chinese languages. Mary has been certified as a Project Management Professional \(PMP Management Institute \(PMI   


The 2014 International Conference on Collabora tion Technologies and Systems \(CTS 2014 May 19 - 23, 2014, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA   CTS 2014 DOCTORAL DISSERTATION COLLOQUIUM   A Federated Cloud of Things for Emergency Management Gilberto Taccari Adviser Luca Spalazzi Università Politecnica delle Marche, Ancona, Italy   Designing Mobile Interactions for Athletes Susanne Koch Stigberg Advisers Hilda Tellioglu and Steinar Kristoffersen Vienna University of Technology, Austria and Øs tfold University College, Halden, Norway       


The 2014 International Conference on Collabora tion Technologies and Systems \(CTS 2014 May 19 - 23, 2014, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA   CTS 2014 POSTER PAPERS AND POSTERS Partial List   POSTER PAPERS  Information Exchange and Fusion in a Collaborative Environment using Semantic Information Requirements Joshua M. Powers, Keith D. Shapiro, David S. Monk Securboration Inc., Florida, USA; C5T Corporation, Illinois, USA  An Effective Approach Using Eco-feedback to Motivate Energy Conservation Behaviors Hieu Huynh Chi stfold University College, Halden, Norway  Saving Energy with Pleasure: Designing EnergyRace Web Application Ksenia Dmitrieva stfold University College, Halden, Norway  Promoting Energy Efficient Behavior through Energy-Related Feedback Que Tran stfold University College, Halden, Norway  Collaborative System to Investigate Mental Models the Information Architecture Automatic Tool \(IAAT Cristina Olaverri-Monreal, Joel Gonçalves Technische Universität München, Germany  A New Scheme to Evaluate the Accuracy of Knowledge Representation in Automated Breast Cancer Diagnosis Juan Shan, Lin Li Pace University, New York, USA; Mu rray State University, Kentucky, USA  Disaster Relief Management and Resilience Using Photovoltaic Energy Salahuddin Qazi, William Young State University of New York Institute of Technology New York, USA; SUN Tree Consulting, Florida, USA   TECHNICAL POSTERS  From Microscope to Computer: Using Facebook to Assist Medical Laboratory Scientists in Nigeria Access and Navigate eLearning Courses Jarret Cassaniti, Nandini Jayarajan, Rebecca Shore, Simone Parrish, Lisa Mwaikambo Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health Center for Communication Programs, Maryland, USA  Semantic Search & Integration to Climate Data Ranjeet Devarakonda, Giriprakash Palani samy, Line C. Pouchard, Biva Shrestha Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Tennessee, USA  


Triggering Creativity through Semantic Cross-domain Web Crawling and Routing Francesco Taglino, Fabrizio Smith Institute for System Analysis and Co mputer Science, CNR, Rome, Italy  Integration of Emerging Learning Technologies in Secondary Schools: A Burkina Faso Case Study Romaric R. Zongo University of Minnesota – Twin Cities, Minnesota, USA  Visualization of Energy Consumption: Motivating fo r a Sustainable Behaviour Through Social Media Caroline So  e Olsen stfold University College, Halden, Norway   INDUSTRY POSTERS  Annotation and Deep Search of Se mi-Structured Technical Documents Chris Macks Progeny Systems Corporation, Virginia, USA   


  Paper 2581 Version 2  14   Flight i nformation and processing   Presentation and projection of flight profiles   Real time operational information   Managing both pilot operator and air traffic controller workloads   Procedural processes supported by enhanced automation capabilities   Control sector complexity and management   Separation a ssurance   Airspace d esign and p rocedures   Investment in resolving these constraints  will drive the rate of adoption in civil UAS operations in the NAS One p art of the investment will be driven by the FAA\222s \223F acilities and Equipment\224 F&E Budget over  the next ten years Another part will be driven by defense and federal investment  in R&D  The remaining part will be driven by private investment seeking to develop profitable supplie r s and manufacturing firms of UAS Unfortunately   private investment will not fully launch until there is a clear indication of the public investment into implementing the requisite air traffic management  and air traffic control  ATM/ATC changes into the NAS infrastructure and there i s a common  approach through avionic standards in UA V  equipage   It is expected that avionic standards would lower the end user costs The impact on NAS infrastructure is the outline in the following subsection  Today\222s Air Traffic Control System  Today\222s air traffic control system is built around four basic pillars. These are communications, navigation, surveillance and infrastructure. The mortar holding these pillars together is aviation policy, rules and procedures  The FAA Air Traffic Organizat ion \(ATO\ has identified over 25 FAA procedural orders and notices that will need to be revised to accommodate routine  UAS operations in the NAS. This does not include advisory and informational materials that need to be developed and briefed to air traffi c controllers, pilots and other aviation stakeholders Additionally NAS investments to accommodate UAS efforts and associated costs must extend  beyond training requirements and procedural developments to include modification of infrastructure to permit an d to optimize efficiency and safety of UAS operations in the NAS  The majority of UAS operating in the NAS today are predominantly operated by the DoD. They were not designed with NAS compatibility in mind but rather to meet military mission needs. It is e xpected future commercial UAS will be designed and operated much more along the lines of manned aircraft. For example, current DoD UAS do not have Flight Management Systems and associated NAS aeronautical database and cannot be program m ed to fly approved F AA instrument procedures such as an instrument landing system \(ILS\ approach. Future commercial UAS operating in the NAS will need have integrated avionics systems and NAS capabilities similar to those of manned aircraft. However, unique challenges associa ted with UAS will remain and drive functional changes across many NAS project and programs. Some of these anticipated drivers or changes are listed by FAA program area below  En Route Automation Modernization \(ERAM 227 ERAM will be impacted by the need to be able to accept and process and display lengthy and complex UAS flight plans that include automated flight profile contingencies to the air traffic controller. This includes the ability to display a 20 minute planned route of flight on a controller\222s displa y suite  ERAM needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in an en route center airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained  COA  process now is in use  Nati onal Voice System \(NVS  227 Future air traffic control voice switching systems must be able to provide timely and direct pilot to controller voice and data e.g text messaging\ communications via Voice Over Internet Protocol \(V o IP  Terminal Automation Mode rnization and Replacement TAMR  227 TAMR needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in a terminal airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained COA  process now is use. TAMR also needs to be able to surveil approved UAS flights within the terminal environment  Terminal Information Display System \(IDS\ and En Route Information Display System \(ERIDS  227 Information support systems need to be able to inges t to and  to rapidly display unique local procedures and associated graphics associated with UAS operations. These include pilot communications and UAV control lost ink procedures  System Wide Information Management \(SWIM  227 SWIM  must be able to rapidly mov e critical UAS information around the NAS to provide the right information to the right controller or pilot at the right time and in the desired  format  Flight Information Exchange Model \(FIXM  227 UAS flight information needs to move to and from other Air Navigation Service Providers \(ANSP\ throughout the world and new data terminology must be created that supports the collection, processing and dissemination of UAS movements through the airspace  Air Traffic Control Optimum Training Solutions \(ATCOTS  227 UAS provides new training challenges for FAA in creating new teaching curricula that contains new procedures and paradigms used to accommodate UAS safely and efficiently in the NAS. This is notable c hallenge given 


  Paper 2581 Version 2  15  the diversity and dynamic of evolving UAS technologies and missions  Future Facilities 227 FAA real estate assets may likely be affected as new UAS related systems are development and deployed. UAS NAS integration may drive additional FAA manpow er needs for positions of operations, coordination and management. This may require additional physical footprints to accommodate new positions of operations personnel and their supporting infrastructure  Next Generation Weather Processor \(NWP\ and Weathe r and Radar Processor \(WARP  227 The removal of a pilot in the cockpit also removes the ability to \223see\224 from a traditional pilot\222s perspective. Not only does this relate to the need for electronic systems for detect and avoid \(i.e., the FAR reference 91.113 for see and avoid\ but also affects many aspects of flight safety associated with detection and avoidance of hazardous weather from visual perspective of the manned cockpit. Determination of flight visibility is one such factor. It should also be noted tha t many of the UAS flying in the NAS today have a very low tolerance to hazardous weather such as turbulence and icing  Detect and Avoid \(DAA  227  Depending upon architecture and functionality, detect and avoid for UAS could have a profound impact on a variety of FAA systems and infrastructure components. DAA can be airborne based, and affect Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast \(ADS B\ In and Out and an associated Cockpit Display of Traffic Information \(CDTI\nd Traffic Alert and Collision Avoida nce System \(TCAS\ functionality, including designs for the new Next Generation Airborne Collision Avoidance Systems \(ACAS X\. GBSAA that leverages ASR 11 Surveillance Radars and Standard Terminal Automation Replacement Systems \(STARS\ or TAMR also demands automation and surveillance system modification to provide this capability. Additional future work on portable primary three dimensional \(3D\ radars integrated in the NAS will also demand close analysis  The previous overview of FAA air traffic control sys tems gives insight in the investment required to be undertaken within the F AA\222s F&E  budget It also s erve s to illustrate the pervasiveness of changes that the UAS will eventually have on air traffic control and its supporting  ATM  infrastructure   It is impo rtant to recognize these ATM/ATC changes need to be planned for, funded and deployed. It must also be recognized that these UAS related investments do not stand alone in that these changes must be done while other planned ATC system improvements are taking  place I nvestments   such as   the Surveillance Broadcast System Program  National Voice Switch, Future Cyber Security Data Communications, and others are planned under the Next Generation Air Transport System  NextGen and others  Obviously   if future UA S forecasts are to be sustained it will entail a major shift in current FAA investment in addition to the  currently planned funding of NextGen  The forecasts outlined in this paper  will require an increase in funding levels of between $500 million and $1 billion dollars per year over and above current FAA requested F&E funding levels   Doing so will greatly facilitate realization of the $30 billion per year UAS market  9   S UMMARY  From an aviation perspective, UAS represents a new and disruptive technology  challenging the staid institutions policy, procedures and technologies that exist today and have served manned aircraft well for the last fifty years or more. This UAS technology supports an incredibly wide range of uses that not only allows old challeng es to be addressed in new ways but also creates new innovative world markets for hundreds, if not thousands, of new creative applications answering the call of \223better, faster and cheaper.\224  A growing number of early adopters and innovators of aviation tech nologies are beginning to realize the significance of a growing diversity and number of UAS  This growth  is  driven by a confluence of technological developments in airframes, powerplants, sensor s command and control sys tems and information management The  economic  value  of this industry projected to be $30 billion per year supporting 300,000 American jobs by 2035   As concluded b y the study team   the realization of UAS market forecasts will be constrained  unless key investment is performed in   The NAS ATC/A TM facilities needed to be updated to support new aircraft performance and controller capabilities   Training for ATC to be ready to adopt the new unmanned aircraft performance with acceptable workload    ATC to pilot communications that have the availability  integrity confidentiality and continuity as to not heavily impact either  pilot o r  controller workload   Development of Civil standards for the c ontrol and communications data link that w ill foster low cost access for a b road  range of UAS 226  this could in clude standards of f orm, fit and function as well as covering signal in space  networked channel  access and common control exchange applications    This key investment will develop a C 3  approach to support NAS integration.  It is agreed that other areas such as of DAA are important for investment, but there are already multiple economic incentive s  following this path  


  Paper 2581 Version 2  16  R EFERENCES  1 223 Unmanned Aircraft System \(UAS\ Service Demand 2015 2 035: Literature Review and Projections of Future Usage 224  Volpe National Transportation Systems Center Cambridge MA September 2013, Version 0.1   2 AINonline, June 8, 2012, Bill Carey   3  UAV Vision Pty Ltd  2/10 Uralla Street  P ort  M acquarie  NSW 2444  Australia   4  M1 D  Thermal FLIR PTZ Camera, Sierra Pacific Corporation, Las Vegas, NV   5   Experimental Advanced Research Lidar  USGS.gov  Retrieved 8 August 2007   6  Luke Wallace  Arko Lucieer  Christopher Watson and Darren Turner 223Devel opment of a UAV LiDAR System with Application to Forest Inventory\224, Remote Sensing Volume 4 issue 6, May 25 2012 http://www.mdpi.com/2072 4292/4/6/1519  7 M ag r et t a  J o a n  223 Wh y B u s i n e s s M o d e l s M at t er  224 H ar v a r d  Business Review, pp 3 8, May 2002   B IOGRAPH IES  Chris Wargo  is a program manager and director business development for Mosaic ATM, Inc 226  a firm specializing in air traffic management systems development unmanned systems and data management systems for the aviation sector. He also leads the Autonomous  Systems Group and  served as a Chair of the System Engineering Working Group of RTCA SC 203  He has also held positions as President of Computer Network Software, Inc., Vice President and General Manager for ARINC, Inc., C3I Program Manager RC A Automated Systems and GE, as well as Systems Engineer for GTE Sylvania, Electronic Systems Group, and the US Army. In his role as a leader in aviation  next generation systems engineering, he has participated in numerous ICAO, RTCA AEEC, IEEE and IATA c ommittees and standards working groups throughout his 30 year defense and aeronautical systems career. He has presented a number of papers and chaired many industry conference sessions related to the CNS and network system programs, project and technologie s of the general, business and air transport community.   He has a BSEE from the University of Wisconsin and an MS, Systems Engineering, from the University of Southern California, and has attended the Defense Systems Management College and the Advanced Ma nagement Program at the Harvard Business Sch ool    Jason Glaneuski  is a Program Manager and Operations Research Analyst in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center \(Volpe Center\ in Cambridge, MA His  Division applies information technology and operations research disciplines to enhance the capacity, safety and security of the National Airspace System. A key component of this work is developing concepts and designing automated decision support tools a nd capabilities  that provide solutions to existing and anticipated traffic flow issues. Mr. Glaneuski has experience both performing and managing technical work in the areas of traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM and unmanned aircraft systems \(UAS\ sense and avoid SAA\, among others. Mr. Glaneuski is a graduate of Daniel Webster College in Nashua, NH, where he received his B.S in Aviation Management and Flight Operations. Prior to joining the Volpe Center in 2001, Mr. Glaneus ki worked for the FAA\222s Free Flight Program Office in Washington, D.C   Mark Strout  is an Operations Research Analyst and Project Manager in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe Center in Cambridge, MA. Mr. Strout provides project oversight and technical expertise attendant to several ATM related concepts and capabili ties, including traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM\, National Airspace System Common Reference \(NCR unmanned aircraft systems and flow based trajectory management \(FBTM\. Mr. Strout is a graduate of the University of Virgini a, where he received his B.S. in Aerospace Engineering   Gary Churc h is the President of Aviation Management Associates, Inc. a Washington, DC based aviation firm established in 1984 to provide consulting services related to the Federal Aviation Administ ration and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Mr. Church leads a team of two dozen aviation domain experts. He is a former air traffic controller and Manager of Air Traffic Control for the Air Transport Association \(now known as Airlines fo r America as well as an instrument rated pilot. Mr. Church has authored many air traffic control related articles and reports over the years as well participat ing  in numerous  key aviation related committees on behalf of FAA and others Mr. Church majored in Economics and Physics at the Un iversity of California Berkeley       
























































     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


