ICTON 2014  Tu.A1.4  978-1-4799-5601-2/14/$31.00 \2512014 IEEE 1 Carrier SDN for Flexgrid-Based Inter-Datacenter Connectivity A. Asensio*, L. Gifre, M. Ruiz, and L. Velasco Optical Communications Group \(GCO\. Universitat Po lit\350cnica de Catalunya \(UPC\, Barcelona, Spain e-mail: adrian.asensio@tsc.upc.edu ABSTRACT Managing inter-datacenter \(DC\onnectivity to tran sport increasing amounts of data and optimize DC performance and costs becomes a challenge not only for DC operators but also for network operators. Current inter-DC connections are configured as static big fat pipes, resulting in large bitrate over-provisioning thus increasing operational costs for DC operators. Furthermore, because of the nature of inter- DC traffic, which highly varies during the time, network operators cannot share such connections with other customers, and network resources may be underutilized. Therefore, an in creasing number of studies are being carried out with the aim to address different challenges arising from inte r-DC connectivity requirements. This paper summarizes connectivity models and results showing remarkable advantages of considering carrier software defined network SDN\ and elastic operations for managing inter-DC connections Keywords datacenter federation, carrier software defined networks, Flexgrid optical networks 1  INTRODUCTION Datacenter \(DC\rators deal not only with inherent DC issues such as huge energy consum ption but also with extremely dynamic workload mixes and intensities. Thus when designing DCs, overprovisioning resources for peak workloads might result highly inefficient whereas under-provisioning them might result in poor quality of service \(QoS\level agreem ent \(SLA\on-fulfillment. In order to optimize resources usage, elastic resources management is performed according to demand For example, virtualization allows encapsulating jobs  e.g web applications\n virtual machines \(VM\ mixed with other workloads and consolidate them in the most proper server according to their pe rformance requirements. Moreover, the local resource manager can migrate VMs among servers for reducing energy consumption while ensuring the committed QoS [1  in p r act i ce physical machines in DCs are turned of f when they are not used and turned on to satisfy increments in demand In addition, as proposed in [2 u d provid ers can  b en e fit fro m in terco n n ecting th eir DCs to creat e DC  federations, not only improving load balancing but also increasing their revenue from using IT resources that in other case would be underutilized and also they can ex pand their geographical coverage without building new DCs. Under this scenario, DC operations are comm only automated using certain cloud middleware running scheduled-based algorithms for migrating VMs and synchronizing databases \(DB\ among federated DCs with the aim to optimize a given utility function Network operators can provide the necessary network infrastructure for inter-DC connections in DC federations. Connections\222 set up with the desired bitrate and tear-down can be requested on-demand. In the last years standardization work has been done defining control plane architectures and protocols to automate connection provisioning. Furthermore, the application-based network operations \(ABNO\ architecture [3 i s  being defined by the IETF. Based on the ABNO architecture, in [4  we pr o pose a c r o s s-st rat u m orc h est r at or an d a dynamic elastic connectivity model for managing conn ections within federated DCs. Additionally, carrier software defined network \(SDN\n abstraction laye r to the underlying network on top of ABNO has been studied Carrier SDN i m ple m ents a n o rt hbound interface to allow cloud middl eware to request transfers using its native semantic i.e amount of data to be transferred, DC destination, completion time etc  Applications\222 operations are then tran sformed into network co nnection requests. The no rthbound interface uses application-oriented semantic, liberating application de velopers from understanding and dealing with network specifics and complexity. Finally, from the data plane pers pective, the maturity of the Flexgrid technology has enabled elastic optical networks develo pm idth allocation to accommoda  so network operators can optimize network resources usage This paper summarizes connectivity models for inter-DC connections studied in our previous work in [4 and    fr om curre nt static con n e c tions to transferences managed by carrier SDN in an ABNO-based architecture and present performance results showing the advantages of using carrier SDN and elastic operations in Flexgridbased optical networks. Detailed descriptions of architect ures supporting connectivity models in DC federations can be found in [4 an d 5  2  CONNECTIVITY MODELS Transport networks are currently configured as big static fat pipes overprovisioning the required average capacity to guarantee QoS and traffic demand. The capacity of each inter-DC optical connection is dimensioned in advance according to a foreseen amou nt of data to transfer. Once in operation, scheduling algorithms inside cloud management run periodically trying to optimize some cost function, such as energy costs, and organize VM m igration and DB synchronization according to the bitrate available. If VM migration or DB 


ICTON 2014  Tu.A1.4  2 synchronization cannot be performed in the desired time, it may eventually lead to performance degradation thus to ensure transfers finish within the desired time some over-dimensioning is needed. Clearly, said static connectivity configuration entails high costs since larg e connectivity capacity remains unused in time periods where low capacity is required. In addition, static conn ections result inefficient also from the network operator point of view, since they cannot sh are network resources and optimize th eir usage. Figure 1a represents a 40 Gb/s optical connection being used only in certain time fractions but occupying network resources during all the time t Bitrate \(Gb/s t 1 t 2 t 3 20 50 80 t 4 t Bitrate \(Gb/s t 1 t 2 10 20 30 t 3 c\ Application-driven d\ Network-driven t Bitrate \(Gb/s t 1 20 40 t 2 b\ Dynamic connectivity a\ Static connectivity t 20 40 60 80 t 1 t 2 t 3 Bitrate \(Gb/s  Figure 1. Bitrate vs. time for different connectivity models b\ Application-driven c\ Network-driven DC ABNO PATH Rq BW=100Gb/s PATH Rq BW=20Gb/s OK INC Rq BW=100Gb/s t 1 INC Rq BW=30Gb/s OK   Error BW=20Gb/s Error BW=30Gb/s t 2 INC Rq BW=100Gb/s   Error BW=30Gb/s PATH Tear OK t 3   DC SDN ABNO TRANS Rq Vol=5TB Time=25min Error Time=35min OK BW=20Gb/s PATH Rq BW=20Gb/s t 3 t 1     TRANS Rq Vol=5TB Time=35min OK SUBSCRIBE PATH Rq BW=30Gb/s Error BW=20Gb/s INC Rq BW=50Gb/s OK NOTIFY NOTIFY BW=50Gb/s t 2 INC Rq BW=80Gb/s OK NOTIFY NOTIFY BW=80Gb/s PATH Tear OK t 4   PATH Tear OK ABNO PATH Rq BW=80Gb/s PATH Rq BW=40Gb/s OK t 1 Error BW=40Gb/s PATH Tear OK t 2   DC a\ Dynamic connectivity  Figure 2. Connectivity models In view of the inefficient usage of resources when considering static connectivity, cloud services require new mechanisms to provide reconfigura tion and adaptability of the transpor t network to reduce the amount of overprovisioned bandwidth; the efficient integration of cloud-based services among distributed DCs, including the interconnecting network, then becomes a challenge Therefore, the cloud-r eady transport network was introduced as an arch itecture to handle this dynamic cloud and network interaction, allowing on-demand connectivity provisioning. Dynamic connectivity allows DC operators to manage optical connections to remote DCs, requesting connections as they are really needed to perform data transfers and releasing them when all data has been transferred. Furthermore, the fine spectral gran ularity and wide range of bitrates in elastic optical networks make the actual bitrate of the optical connection closely fit connectivity needs. After requesting a connection and negotiating its capacity as a function of the current network resources availability, the resulting bitrate can be used by scheduling algorithms to organize transferences. Figure 1b represents a 40 Gb/s connection established at t 1 and torn down at t 2 its capacity is used during the whole time interval The sequence in Figure 2a illustrates a simplified vers ion of the corresponding messages exchanged between the proper DC interface and ABNO. Once th e algorithms in DC have computed a transfer to be performed, an 80 Gb/s optical connection request to a remote DC is se nt to ABNO and operations as described in [4 are performed. Assuming that not enough resources are available for the bitrat e requested, an algorithm inside ABNO finds the maximum bitrate and sends a response back to the originating DC with said information. Upon the reception of the maximum available bi trate, 40 Gb/s in the example, the transfer is recomputed, the amount of data to transfer reduced, and finally a new connection wi th the available bitrate is re quested. Transfer is then established t 1 When the transfer ends t 2 message to tear down the connection is sent to ABNO from DC and the used network resources ar e released so they can be a ssigned to any other connection Nonetheless, the availability of resources is not guar anteed using dynamic connectivity, and lack of network resources at request time may result in long transference times and even in transferen ce period overlapping. Note that a connection\222s bitrate cannot be renegotiated and remains constant along the connection\222s holding time. To reduce the impact of the unavailability of required connectivity resources, in [4 we propo se t o tak e advan t ag e of the elasticity that the Flexgrid technology provides, allowing the amount of spectral resources assigned to each connection to be increased/decreased, and thus its bitrate. This adaptation is done if there are not enough resources at request time so that more bandwidth may be requested at any time after the connection has been set up. We refer to this type of connectivity as dynamic elastic or application-driven. It is worth noting that although applications have full control over the connectiv ity process, physical networ k resources are shared with a number of clients and connections\222 set up and elastic spec trum increments could be blocked as a result of lack of resources in the network. Hence, applications need to implement some sort of peri odical retries to increase the allocated bandwidth until reaching the required level 


ICTON 2014  Tu.A1.4  3 Figure 1c represents the connection\222s bitrate during the time according to set up, tear-down and elastic operations shown in Figure 2b. Similarly to dynami c connectivity, the DC prop er interface negotiates for a 100 Gb/s connection but ABNO responds to it with maxi mum connection\222s capacity available, 20 Gb/s in the example, and after organizing the data to transfer the corresponding connection set up is requested to ABNO and the connection is established t 1 xample, some resources are released after the connection has been established, and after a request is received t 2 hey can be assigned to incr ement the bitrate of the already established connection; the assigned bitrate is then increa sed to 80 Gb/s, reducing thus the total transfer time Note that this is beneficial for both DC federation, since better performance could be achieved, and the network operator, since unused resources are immediately occupi ed. Once the transference finishes, the DC requests to ABNO to tear down the connection t 3  Finally, we propose a network-driven model \(Figure 1d and Figure 2c\ using carrier SDN as described in [5   where applications request transferen ces instead of connectivity. In this case, the source DC sends a transfer request to carrier SDN specifying the destination DC, the amount of data to be transferred, and the maximum completion time. Upon its reception the carrier SDN requests ABNO to find the greatest spectrum width available, taking into account local policies and current service level agreements and sends a response back to the source DC with the best completion time. The proper manager in the source DC organizes data transference and sends a new transfer request with the suggested co mpletion time. A new connection is established and its capacity is sent in the response message; in addition carrier SDN requests ABNO to keep it informed upon more resources are left available in the route of the corresponding label switched path \(LSP\ supporting that connection. Algorithms deployed in ABNO controller monitor spectrum availability in those physical links When resource availability allows increasing the allocated bitrate of some LSP, the carrier SDN performs elastic spectrum operations so as to ensure committed transfer completion times Each time the carrier SDN modifies bitrate by performing elastic spectrum operations, a notification containing the new throughput is sent to the source DC. In the source DC, VM migration is then optimized as a function of the actual throughput while delegating ensuring completion transfer time to the carrier SDN 3  ILLUSTRATIVE RESULTS For evaluation purposes, we developed scheduling algorithms in an OpenNebula-based cloud middleware emulator. A worldwide DC federation is considered and its DCs are connected to an ad-hoc event-driven simulator developed in OMNeT++ [9 e si m u lato r i m p l e m en ts th e carrier SDN and th e Flex grid n et w ork with an ABNO controller on the top. Traffic among DCs \(DC2DC\d between users and DCs \(U2DC\ compete for resources in the physical network. A follow-the-work strategy for VM migr ation is considered, where VMs are moved closer to the users, reducing thus latency. The DB synchronization policy tries to update the differential images between services running in all the DCs; in the case in which an image cannot be synchronized in time the next update will attempt to synchronize the whole DB image, increasing the DC2DC traffic overhead. The scheduler runs hourly and the desired transferring time is 30 minutes. Connections of 200 Gb/s and 150 Gb/s are needed for DB synchronization and VM migration, respec tively. Further configuration and scenario details can be found in [4  and  5  Figure 3 shows the used bitrate during time for the dynamic and the application-driven connectivity models under low U2DC traffic i.e all transferences finish before the next in terval starts and thus no overlapping is appreciated. Time to transfer is kept under 1 hour for DBs and VMs in both models. Note that connection\222s bitrate varies with the amount of data to transfer in contrast to the constant 200 Gb/s bitrate used in the static model and resulting in bitrate savings as high as 60% [4   Time \(Hour VM VM DB DB Bitrate \(Gb/s Bitrate \(Gb/s 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 2 4 6 8 1012141618202224 024681012141618202224 a b  Figure 3. Dynamic \(a\ and application-driven \(b connectivity Table 1. Time-to-transfer \(minutes Static Dynamic Appdriven DB Max/Avg 54.0/28.5 58.0/39.9 49.0/24.7 VM Max/Avg 50.0/28.7 48.0/39.9 40.0/24.4 Table 2. Application and network -driven comparison  App-driven Net-driven DB \(Max/Avg 58.0/29.0 28.0/22.4 VM \(Max/Avg 54.0/28.2 27.0/22.2 Requests h, %success 43.1, 53.5 65.3, 100   


ICTON 2014  Tu.A1.4  4 Table 1 shows maximum and average values of transf erence times. Values obtained with the applicationdriven model are clearly lower than those obtained with the dynamic and even the static connectivity models Furthermore, dynamic connectivity exceeds the desired aver age transference time of 30 minutes while it is kept near 25 minutes when considering the application-driven model. It is worth noting that, as shown in [4 scenarios with higher U2DC traffic, the amount of needed bitrate for the dynamic connections might not be available at the time of the request, so this model is not able to perform data transfers within 1 hour, leading to period overlapping and poor performance as some DBs become degraded and users perceive an increased latency. The dynamic elastic model is able to keep time to transfer under 1 hour for both low and high U2DC traffic thanks to elastic bitrate operations pe rformed on the establis hed optical connections Notwithstanding, the cost of elasticity in the application-driven model is in the control plane, since the amount of messages that need to be processed is slightly increased; 40.8 request messages/h to increase connections\222 capacity in addition to 36.8 messages/h for connections\222 setup and teardown. More than half of requests, 53.8%, were successful, and the optical connection was expanded Finally, in order to compare the application-driven an d the network-driven models we use carrier SDN as described in [5 Tabl e 2 s h ow s t h at w h e n usi n g t h e net w o r kdri v en m odel  bot h t h e m a xim u m and avera g e required time-to-transfer are signifi cantly lower than when the software-driven model is used. The longest transfers could be done in only 28 minutes when the network-driven model was used compared to just under 60 minutes using the software-driven model. Note that the amount of requested bitrate is the same for both models. Table 2 also shows the number of required requ ests messages per hour needed to increase bitrate of connections for the whole scenario. On ly 53% of those requests succeeded to increase connections\222 bitrate under the application-driven model, in contrast to 100% reached under the network-driven model 4  CONCLUSIONS Inter-DC connectivity models have been presented based on our previous work in [4  an d [5   Ai m i ng t o  improve the performance of dynamic connectivity we propose application-driven and network-driven connectivity models, both taking advantage of elastic connections supported by Flexgrid-based interconnection networks. The application-driven model needs periodical retries requesting to increase connection\222s bitrate which do not translate into immediate bitrate increments and could have a negative impact on the performance of the inter-DC control plane. In contrast, the network-driven model takes advantage of using carrier SDN allowing cloud middleware to request transfers using its native semantic i.e amount of data to be transferred, DC destination, completion time etc Applications\222 operations are transfor med into network connection requests Illustrative results show that application-driven conn ectivity improves the performance of the dynamic one in scenarios where the physical optical network is shared by several services, so competence to use network resources arises. Both dynamic and ap plication-driven models show bitrat e savings near 60% with respect to static connectivity. In addition, when using the networkdriven model transferring time is remarkably reduced in comparison with the application-driven model ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research leading to these results has received funding from the European Community's Seventh Framework Programme FP7/2007-2013 under grant agreement n\260 317999 IDEALIST project. Moreover, it was supported by the Spanish science ministry throug h the TEC2011-27310 ELASTIC project REFERENCES 1  M. Mishra et al 223Dynamic resource management using virtual machine migrations 224 IEEE Commun. Mag vol. 50 2012, pp. 34-40 2  L. Velasco et al 223Elastic operations in federated datacenters for performance and cost optimization,\224 Elsevier Computer Communications 2014 3  D. King, A. Farrel, \223A PCE-based Architecture for Application-based Network Operations 224 IETF draft, Oct. 2013 4  L. Velasco et al 223Cross-stratum orchestration and Flexgrid optical networks for datacenter federations,\224 IEEE Network Magazine vol. 27, pp. 23-30, 2013 5  L. Velasco et al 223Towards a carrier SDN: An example for elas tic inter-datacenter connec tivity,\224 \(Invited Paper OSA Optics Express vol. 22, pp. 55-61, 2014 6  M. Jinno et al 223Spectrum-efficient and scalable elastic optical path network: Architecture, benefits, and enabling technologies 224 IEEE Communications Magazine vol. 47, pp. 66-73 7  M. Klinkowski et al 223Elastic spectrum allocation for time-varying traffic in FlexGrid optical networks,\224 IEEE JSAC  vol. 31, 2013, pp. 26\22638 8  A. Asensio et al 223Impact of aggregation level on the performance of dynamic lightpath adaptation under time-varying traffic,\224 in Proc. IEEE International Conference on Optical Network Design and Modeling \(ONDM 2013 9  A. Asensio et al 223An elastic networks OM NeT++-based simulator,\224 in Proc. International Conference on Transparent Optical Networks \(ICTON 2013 


          


                  


    


              


     


REQUIREMENTS  AND  TARGET  AUDIENCE Knowledge of LexisNexis’ High Performan ce Computing Cluster \(HPCC\not required \(the HPCC serves as Smart View’s backend  Anyone who is tasked with or has an interest in entity reso lution as it pertains to big data is encouraged to attend  DEMO  DURATION The demo will be presented in a 30-minute session  A/V AND EQUIPMENT Personal computer and a projector  PRESENTER’S  BIOGRAPHY Mary Galvin has a decade of professional expertise in the software industry serving in a variety of technical & management roles on pr oducts and projects. Mary s technical domain expertise encompasses both huma n language technology \(HLT as well as data intensive processing systems such as LexisNexis’ Hi gh Performance Computing Cluster \(HPCC  Mary earned her bachelor’s degree in comput er engineering from Villanova University in 2003, where she also received minors in comput er science, Spanish, and naval science. In addition to being proficient in Spanish, she has a strong knowledge of the Arabic and Chinese languages. Mary has been certified as a Project Management Professional \(PMP Management Institute \(PMI   


The 2014 International Conference on Collabora tion Technologies and Systems \(CTS 2014 May 19 - 23, 2014, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA   CTS 2014 DOCTORAL DISSERTATION COLLOQUIUM   A Federated Cloud of Things for Emergency Management Gilberto Taccari Adviser Luca Spalazzi Università Politecnica delle Marche, Ancona, Italy   Designing Mobile Interactions for Athletes Susanne Koch Stigberg Advisers Hilda Tellioglu and Steinar Kristoffersen Vienna University of Technology, Austria and Øs tfold University College, Halden, Norway       


The 2014 International Conference on Collabora tion Technologies and Systems \(CTS 2014 May 19 - 23, 2014, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA   CTS 2014 POSTER PAPERS AND POSTERS Partial List   POSTER PAPERS  Information Exchange and Fusion in a Collaborative Environment using Semantic Information Requirements Joshua M. Powers, Keith D. Shapiro, David S. Monk Securboration Inc., Florida, USA; C5T Corporation, Illinois, USA  An Effective Approach Using Eco-feedback to Motivate Energy Conservation Behaviors Hieu Huynh Chi stfold University College, Halden, Norway  Saving Energy with Pleasure: Designing EnergyRace Web Application Ksenia Dmitrieva stfold University College, Halden, Norway  Promoting Energy Efficient Behavior through Energy-Related Feedback Que Tran stfold University College, Halden, Norway  Collaborative System to Investigate Mental Models the Information Architecture Automatic Tool \(IAAT Cristina Olaverri-Monreal, Joel Gonçalves Technische Universität München, Germany  A New Scheme to Evaluate the Accuracy of Knowledge Representation in Automated Breast Cancer Diagnosis Juan Shan, Lin Li Pace University, New York, USA; Mu rray State University, Kentucky, USA  Disaster Relief Management and Resilience Using Photovoltaic Energy Salahuddin Qazi, William Young State University of New York Institute of Technology New York, USA; SUN Tree Consulting, Florida, USA   TECHNICAL POSTERS  From Microscope to Computer: Using Facebook to Assist Medical Laboratory Scientists in Nigeria Access and Navigate eLearning Courses Jarret Cassaniti, Nandini Jayarajan, Rebecca Shore, Simone Parrish, Lisa Mwaikambo Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health Center for Communication Programs, Maryland, USA  Semantic Search & Integration to Climate Data Ranjeet Devarakonda, Giriprakash Palani samy, Line C. Pouchard, Biva Shrestha Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Tennessee, USA  


Triggering Creativity through Semantic Cross-domain Web Crawling and Routing Francesco Taglino, Fabrizio Smith Institute for System Analysis and Co mputer Science, CNR, Rome, Italy  Integration of Emerging Learning Technologies in Secondary Schools: A Burkina Faso Case Study Romaric R. Zongo University of Minnesota – Twin Cities, Minnesota, USA  Visualization of Energy Consumption: Motivating fo r a Sustainable Behaviour Through Social Media Caroline So  e Olsen stfold University College, Halden, Norway   INDUSTRY POSTERS  Annotation and Deep Search of Se mi-Structured Technical Documents Chris Macks Progeny Systems Corporation, Virginia, USA   


  Paper 2581 Version 2  14   Flight i nformation and processing   Presentation and projection of flight profiles   Real time operational information   Managing both pilot operator and air traffic controller workloads   Procedural processes supported by enhanced automation capabilities   Control sector complexity and management   Separation a ssurance   Airspace d esign and p rocedures   Investment in resolving these constraints  will drive the rate of adoption in civil UAS operations in the NAS One p art of the investment will be driven by the FAA\222s \223F acilities and Equipment\224 F&E Budget over  the next ten years Another part will be driven by defense and federal investment  in R&D  The remaining part will be driven by private investment seeking to develop profitable supplie r s and manufacturing firms of UAS Unfortunately   private investment will not fully launch until there is a clear indication of the public investment into implementing the requisite air traffic management  and air traffic control  ATM/ATC changes into the NAS infrastructure and there i s a common  approach through avionic standards in UA V  equipage   It is expected that avionic standards would lower the end user costs The impact on NAS infrastructure is the outline in the following subsection  Today\222s Air Traffic Control System  Today\222s air traffic control system is built around four basic pillars. These are communications, navigation, surveillance and infrastructure. The mortar holding these pillars together is aviation policy, rules and procedures  The FAA Air Traffic Organizat ion \(ATO\ has identified over 25 FAA procedural orders and notices that will need to be revised to accommodate routine  UAS operations in the NAS. This does not include advisory and informational materials that need to be developed and briefed to air traffi c controllers, pilots and other aviation stakeholders Additionally NAS investments to accommodate UAS efforts and associated costs must extend  beyond training requirements and procedural developments to include modification of infrastructure to permit an d to optimize efficiency and safety of UAS operations in the NAS  The majority of UAS operating in the NAS today are predominantly operated by the DoD. They were not designed with NAS compatibility in mind but rather to meet military mission needs. It is e xpected future commercial UAS will be designed and operated much more along the lines of manned aircraft. For example, current DoD UAS do not have Flight Management Systems and associated NAS aeronautical database and cannot be program m ed to fly approved F AA instrument procedures such as an instrument landing system \(ILS\ approach. Future commercial UAS operating in the NAS will need have integrated avionics systems and NAS capabilities similar to those of manned aircraft. However, unique challenges associa ted with UAS will remain and drive functional changes across many NAS project and programs. Some of these anticipated drivers or changes are listed by FAA program area below  En Route Automation Modernization \(ERAM 227 ERAM will be impacted by the need to be able to accept and process and display lengthy and complex UAS flight plans that include automated flight profile contingencies to the air traffic controller. This includes the ability to display a 20 minute planned route of flight on a controller\222s displa y suite  ERAM needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in an en route center airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained  COA  process now is in use  Nati onal Voice System \(NVS  227 Future air traffic control voice switching systems must be able to provide timely and direct pilot to controller voice and data e.g text messaging\ communications via Voice Over Internet Protocol \(V o IP  Terminal Automation Mode rnization and Replacement TAMR  227 TAMR needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in a terminal airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained COA  process now is use. TAMR also needs to be able to surveil approved UAS flights within the terminal environment  Terminal Information Display System \(IDS\ and En Route Information Display System \(ERIDS  227 Information support systems need to be able to inges t to and  to rapidly display unique local procedures and associated graphics associated with UAS operations. These include pilot communications and UAV control lost ink procedures  System Wide Information Management \(SWIM  227 SWIM  must be able to rapidly mov e critical UAS information around the NAS to provide the right information to the right controller or pilot at the right time and in the desired  format  Flight Information Exchange Model \(FIXM  227 UAS flight information needs to move to and from other Air Navigation Service Providers \(ANSP\ throughout the world and new data terminology must be created that supports the collection, processing and dissemination of UAS movements through the airspace  Air Traffic Control Optimum Training Solutions \(ATCOTS  227 UAS provides new training challenges for FAA in creating new teaching curricula that contains new procedures and paradigms used to accommodate UAS safely and efficiently in the NAS. This is notable c hallenge given 


  Paper 2581 Version 2  15  the diversity and dynamic of evolving UAS technologies and missions  Future Facilities 227 FAA real estate assets may likely be affected as new UAS related systems are development and deployed. UAS NAS integration may drive additional FAA manpow er needs for positions of operations, coordination and management. This may require additional physical footprints to accommodate new positions of operations personnel and their supporting infrastructure  Next Generation Weather Processor \(NWP\ and Weathe r and Radar Processor \(WARP  227 The removal of a pilot in the cockpit also removes the ability to \223see\224 from a traditional pilot\222s perspective. Not only does this relate to the need for electronic systems for detect and avoid \(i.e., the FAR reference 91.113 for see and avoid\ but also affects many aspects of flight safety associated with detection and avoidance of hazardous weather from visual perspective of the manned cockpit. Determination of flight visibility is one such factor. It should also be noted tha t many of the UAS flying in the NAS today have a very low tolerance to hazardous weather such as turbulence and icing  Detect and Avoid \(DAA  227  Depending upon architecture and functionality, detect and avoid for UAS could have a profound impact on a variety of FAA systems and infrastructure components. DAA can be airborne based, and affect Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast \(ADS B\ In and Out and an associated Cockpit Display of Traffic Information \(CDTI\nd Traffic Alert and Collision Avoida nce System \(TCAS\ functionality, including designs for the new Next Generation Airborne Collision Avoidance Systems \(ACAS X\. GBSAA that leverages ASR 11 Surveillance Radars and Standard Terminal Automation Replacement Systems \(STARS\ or TAMR also demands automation and surveillance system modification to provide this capability. Additional future work on portable primary three dimensional \(3D\ radars integrated in the NAS will also demand close analysis  The previous overview of FAA air traffic control sys tems gives insight in the investment required to be undertaken within the F AA\222s F&E  budget It also s erve s to illustrate the pervasiveness of changes that the UAS will eventually have on air traffic control and its supporting  ATM  infrastructure   It is impo rtant to recognize these ATM/ATC changes need to be planned for, funded and deployed. It must also be recognized that these UAS related investments do not stand alone in that these changes must be done while other planned ATC system improvements are taking  place I nvestments   such as   the Surveillance Broadcast System Program  National Voice Switch, Future Cyber Security Data Communications, and others are planned under the Next Generation Air Transport System  NextGen and others  Obviously   if future UA S forecasts are to be sustained it will entail a major shift in current FAA investment in addition to the  currently planned funding of NextGen  The forecasts outlined in this paper  will require an increase in funding levels of between $500 million and $1 billion dollars per year over and above current FAA requested F&E funding levels   Doing so will greatly facilitate realization of the $30 billion per year UAS market  9   S UMMARY  From an aviation perspective, UAS represents a new and disruptive technology  challenging the staid institutions policy, procedures and technologies that exist today and have served manned aircraft well for the last fifty years or more. This UAS technology supports an incredibly wide range of uses that not only allows old challeng es to be addressed in new ways but also creates new innovative world markets for hundreds, if not thousands, of new creative applications answering the call of \223better, faster and cheaper.\224  A growing number of early adopters and innovators of aviation tech nologies are beginning to realize the significance of a growing diversity and number of UAS  This growth  is  driven by a confluence of technological developments in airframes, powerplants, sensor s command and control sys tems and information management The  economic  value  of this industry projected to be $30 billion per year supporting 300,000 American jobs by 2035   As concluded b y the study team   the realization of UAS market forecasts will be constrained  unless key investment is performed in   The NAS ATC/A TM facilities needed to be updated to support new aircraft performance and controller capabilities   Training for ATC to be ready to adopt the new unmanned aircraft performance with acceptable workload    ATC to pilot communications that have the availability  integrity confidentiality and continuity as to not heavily impact either  pilot o r  controller workload   Development of Civil standards for the c ontrol and communications data link that w ill foster low cost access for a b road  range of UAS 226  this could in clude standards of f orm, fit and function as well as covering signal in space  networked channel  access and common control exchange applications    This key investment will develop a C 3  approach to support NAS integration.  It is agreed that other areas such as of DAA are important for investment, but there are already multiple economic incentive s  following this path  


  Paper 2581 Version 2  16  R EFERENCES  1 223 Unmanned Aircraft System \(UAS\ Service Demand 2015 2 035: Literature Review and Projections of Future Usage 224  Volpe National Transportation Systems Center Cambridge MA September 2013, Version 0.1   2 AINonline, June 8, 2012, Bill Carey   3  UAV Vision Pty Ltd  2/10 Uralla Street  P ort  M acquarie  NSW 2444  Australia   4  M1 D  Thermal FLIR PTZ Camera, Sierra Pacific Corporation, Las Vegas, NV   5   Experimental Advanced Research Lidar  USGS.gov  Retrieved 8 August 2007   6  Luke Wallace  Arko Lucieer  Christopher Watson and Darren Turner 223Devel opment of a UAV LiDAR System with Application to Forest Inventory\224, Remote Sensing Volume 4 issue 6, May 25 2012 http://www.mdpi.com/2072 4292/4/6/1519  7 M ag r et t a  J o a n  223 Wh y B u s i n e s s M o d e l s M at t er  224 H ar v a r d  Business Review, pp 3 8, May 2002   B IOGRAPH IES  Chris Wargo  is a program manager and director business development for Mosaic ATM, Inc 226  a firm specializing in air traffic management systems development unmanned systems and data management systems for the aviation sector. He also leads the Autonomous  Systems Group and  served as a Chair of the System Engineering Working Group of RTCA SC 203  He has also held positions as President of Computer Network Software, Inc., Vice President and General Manager for ARINC, Inc., C3I Program Manager RC A Automated Systems and GE, as well as Systems Engineer for GTE Sylvania, Electronic Systems Group, and the US Army. In his role as a leader in aviation  next generation systems engineering, he has participated in numerous ICAO, RTCA AEEC, IEEE and IATA c ommittees and standards working groups throughout his 30 year defense and aeronautical systems career. He has presented a number of papers and chaired many industry conference sessions related to the CNS and network system programs, project and technologie s of the general, business and air transport community.   He has a BSEE from the University of Wisconsin and an MS, Systems Engineering, from the University of Southern California, and has attended the Defense Systems Management College and the Advanced Ma nagement Program at the Harvard Business Sch ool    Jason Glaneuski  is a Program Manager and Operations Research Analyst in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center \(Volpe Center\ in Cambridge, MA His  Division applies information technology and operations research disciplines to enhance the capacity, safety and security of the National Airspace System. A key component of this work is developing concepts and designing automated decision support tools a nd capabilities  that provide solutions to existing and anticipated traffic flow issues. Mr. Glaneuski has experience both performing and managing technical work in the areas of traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM and unmanned aircraft systems \(UAS\ sense and avoid SAA\, among others. Mr. Glaneuski is a graduate of Daniel Webster College in Nashua, NH, where he received his B.S in Aviation Management and Flight Operations. Prior to joining the Volpe Center in 2001, Mr. Glaneus ki worked for the FAA\222s Free Flight Program Office in Washington, D.C   Mark Strout  is an Operations Research Analyst and Project Manager in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe Center in Cambridge, MA. Mr. Strout provides project oversight and technical expertise attendant to several ATM related concepts and capabili ties, including traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM\, National Airspace System Common Reference \(NCR unmanned aircraft systems and flow based trajectory management \(FBTM\. Mr. Strout is a graduate of the University of Virgini a, where he received his B.S. in Aerospace Engineering   Gary Churc h is the President of Aviation Management Associates, Inc. a Washington, DC based aviation firm established in 1984 to provide consulting services related to the Federal Aviation Administ ration and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Mr. Church leads a team of two dozen aviation domain experts. He is a former air traffic controller and Manager of Air Traffic Control for the Air Transport Association \(now known as Airlines fo r America as well as an instrument rated pilot. Mr. Church has authored many air traffic control related articles and reports over the years as well participat ing  in numerous  key aviation related committees on behalf of FAA and others Mr. Church majored in Economics and Physics at the Un iversity of California Berkeley       
























































     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


